The Honorable William J. Clinton
 President of the United States
The White House
Washington, D. C. 20500
Dear Mr. President:
Attached for your review is the Federal Communications Commission’s Annual
Performance Report for Fiscal Year 1999.
We are pleased with the results of our efforts.  We met or partially met sixty of
our sixty-nine goals—an 87 percent success rate.   In addition to our program goals, we
embarked on an ambitious course of action to completely revise our Strategic Plan to
ensure that our plan reflects the goals of a converging and increasingly global
telecommunications industry.  In redoing our plan, we reached out to industry, to state,
regional, and local governments, to academe and consumer interest groups, and to our
own employees to provide us with input into the plan.  In August 1999, we issued a draft
Strategic Plan that, I believe, provides measurable, results-oriented performance goals for
the next five years.
Another notable achievement in Fiscal Year 1999 was the completion of our plan
to consolidate our enforcement and consumer information activities.  Historically, the
FCC has been organized along the traditional lines of wire, wireless, satellite, broadcast
and cable communications.  This traditional structure no longer makes sense in an era
when the lines dividing many communications service providers are blurring.
Consolidation of our consumer information services will allow us to provide improved
information services to consumers facing a bewildering choice of competing
telecommunications services.  Centralization of our enforcement activities will allow us
to respond quickly and efficiently to questionable activities in an increasingly deregulated
marketplace.  Moreover, our consumer information and enforcement staff will share
information that will enable us to spot trends and areas of consumer and industry
concern.
I would also like to note that we achieved this level of success despite some
formidable programmatic obstacles, including:
• A multi-phased, logistically complex agency move that required that we maintain
duplicate operations for seven months.  This move, and the need to maintain two
separate sites, challenged our resources, particularly our information technology
infrastructure;• An in-depth review of all our mission critical automated processing systems to ensure
that each system was fully Year-2000 compliant.  This effort required a months-long
review and testing of our major systems and the identification of all smaller systems
that required conversion before December 31, 1999.
• In addition, we completed a Business Continuity and Contingency Plan for every
automated system, major or minor, in case our reviews failed to identify all Y2k
problems.  The need to complete these reviews and contingency plans resulted in our
deferring scheduled enhancements or replacements to several major licensing and
document management systems;
• Failure to obtain the necessary funding in Fiscal Year 1999 to upgrade our network
infrastructure and to complete several of the performance goals specified in our Fiscal
Year 1999 Annual Performance Plan. For example, we deferred completion of the
implementation of two of the Mass Media Bureau’s electronic filing systems and an
agency-wide electronic document management system.  We plan to complete work on
these systems in Fiscal Year 2000, if additional funding can be obtained.
I look forward to hearing your comments on our Annual Performance Plan.
Sincerely,
William E. Kennard
Chairman
Enclosure1FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
FISCAL YEAR 1999 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REPORT
Functional Area : Authorization of Service
Objective:  #1 We will meet our established customer Speed of Disposal processing goals.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will review our authorization of
service rules and will simplify and
streamline those authorization
requests where appropriate.Yes The FCC made significant progress in simplifying and streamlining authorization of service
rules in Fiscal Year 1999.  In common carrier matters, we eliminated entry certification
requirements under Section 214 of the Communications Act and approved a streamlined
authorization process for international applications that will qualify approximately 99 percent
of applications for 14-day processing.  In May, we adopted an order substantially revising and,
in some cases, eliminating the International Settlements Policy.  We also streamlined electronic
filing of 15 key broadcast application and reporting forms, representing 88 percent of all
broadcast authorization forms.  A competitive bidding process was approved to replace the
comparative hearing process for the selection of mutually exclusive broadcast applicants.  We
adopted new, simplified rules for the equipment authorization process, deregulating the
equipment authorization requirements for certain types of equipment, and providing for
electronic filing.  Finally, we are nearing completion on the development and implementation
of a Universal Licensing System that provides streamlined electronic Internet filing capabilities
for most wireless services, provides application and tracking status information and reduces the
number of wireless application forms from 63 to five.Performance was measured through a
review and analysis of authorization of
service data and other workload reports
provided by the Bureaus and Offices.
We will meet 90% of our customer
Speed of Disposal processing
goals.Partially
MetThe majority of license applications in all services were processed within established
timeframes.  Those services where the goal was not met were impacted by a variety of
situations including efforts to develop and implement new electronic, Internet accessible, filing
systems, Y2K compliancy issues, the convergence of technologies and industries that created
significant complications in the traditional licensing processes, and agency-wide efforts to
reduce backlogged applications.  We anticipate that we will make significant progress in
meeting our processing goals in Fiscal Year 2000.Performance was measured through
analysis of data contained in internal
workload reports.2We will provide electronic filing
capabilities for CCB, MMB, IB,
WTB, and OET licensing systems.
 We will improve our Speed of
Disposal and public access to the
status of license applications by
integrating Wireless
Telecommunications Bureau’s ten
licensing systems into a single,
integrated database.-We will
improve our Speed of Disposal and
public access to the status of
license applications by re-
engineering and integrating 13
Mass Media Bureau licensing and
authorization of service databases.
  -We will improve our Speed of
Disposal and improve public access
to information through
implementation of redesigned, fully
automated Equipment
Authorization and Experimental
Radio Service licensing systems.Mostly
MetIn Fiscal Year 1999 we continued to implement electronic filing capabilities including systems
in the Common Carrier, International, Wireless Telecommunications Bureaus, and the Office
of Engineering and Technology. Our Wireless Telecommunications Bureau has deployed 7 out
of the ten commercial wireless services as part of its Universal Service Licensing System. Our
Mass Media Bureau has developed electronic licensing capabilities for all of its services and
licensing systems.  However, access to the public was delayed due to Y2k preparation priorities
and budgetary constraints.  Full implementation of these systems is dependent on adequate
funding in Fiscal Year 2000.Performance is measured by the number of
authorization systems reengineered, the
number of electronic filing systems
implemented, and the effect of both on our
licensees.
We will provide immediate access
to routine common carrier Local
Access Transport Area
modifications by placing these
electronically on public notice upon
receipt.Yes All routine common carrier Local Access Transport Area modifications are now immediately
placed on public notice and are accessible electronically through the Commission’s Digital
Index. The comment and reply period for such requests is typically limited to 3 weeks.  An
order addressing the requested modification matters is issued approximately 60 days from the
date of original filing.Performance was measured by changes in
the common carrier Local Access Transport
Area modification processing to provide
immediate access.
We will allow telecommunications
carriers wishing to add new or to
discontinue old lines to obtain
authority under Section 214 with
no regulatory delays.Yes On June 30, 1999, we released a Report and Order revising Part 63 rules eliminating the
requirement to file applications for entry authority.  This order also stipulated that applications
for discontinuance would be granted automatically. Since these rules were implemented, no
entry applications have been filed, and all but two applications for discontinuance have been
allowed to become effective automatically.Performance was measured by the adoption
of rule changes to reduce or eliminate
regulatory delays.3Functional Area : Authorization of Service
Objective:  #2 We will utilize spectrum auctions whenever feasible for efficient licensing and innovative use of
the electromagnetic spectrum allowing the most advantageous use of the scarce spectrum and expedited new
customer services.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will meet all Congressionally-
mandated auction schedules in FY
1999.Yes There were no Congressionally-mandated auctions during Fiscal Year 1999.  The FCC did
conduct six auctions that awarded approximately 1,700 licenses for $640 million.There were no Congressionally--mandated
auctions.4Functional Area : Authorization of Service
Objective:  #3 We will encourage competition in the telecommunications industry through efficient licensing
and authorization of service to competitive services.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will meet 90% of our customer
Speed of Disposal goals.Mostly
MetThe majority of license applications in all services were processed within established time
frames. In several services customer goals were not met due to a variety of reasons—including
efforts to develop and implement new electronic filing systems, Y2K compliancy issues, and
an agency-wide effort to eliminate backlogged applications.  We expect to make significant
progress in meeting our customer service goals in Fiscal Year 2000, given the funding required
to continue our implementation of electronic filing  systems.Performance was measured through
analysis of data contained in internal
workload reports.5Functional Area : Policy and Rulemaking
Objective : #1 We will restructure and streamline the FCC, eliminating outdated or redundant organizations
and overlapping regulations.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will continue to use our
forbearance authority where
appropriate.Yes The Commission issued 24 orders addressing petitions for forbearance in FY 1999. Performance was measured by review of
Orders issued in connection with parties’
requests for forebearance from regulation.
We will review the FCC’s functions
and structures and eliminate obsolete
or overlapping ones .Yes In Fiscal Year 1999, the FCC completed all planning for the consolidation of its enforcement
and consumer information activities.  The consolidation of these two key functions will
improve efficiency and enhance the delivery on consumer information and enforcement
services to the general public and to industry.  In Fiscal Year 1998, the FCC conducted an
agency-wide biennial review to eliminate, consolidate, and/or revise rules that were obsolete or
outdated.  During Fiscal Year 1999, the FCC completed rulemakings streamlining accounting,
reporting, and depreciation rules and released an order finding that it should privatize its
accounting authority in maritime radio services. We  also commenced Phase I of a
Comprehensive Accounting Review to further review areas of possible streamlining.  For other
actions, see next entry.Performance was measured by a
determination that the 1998 Biennial
Regulatory Review was completed and by a
review of other actions taken during FY
1999 that further reduced obsolete or
overlapping functions.
We will continue to evaluate whether
certain regulations are no longer
necessary in the public interest and
should be repealed or modified as
required by Section 11 of the
Communications Act and Section
202(h) of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996.Yes As mentioned in the goal above, we conducted a comprehensive review of all agency rules in
Fiscal Year 1998 to eliminate, consolidate, and/or revise those rules that are no longer in the
public interest.  During FY 1999, the FCC released 9 orders and 1 policy statement regarding
subjects potentially no longer necessary to the public interest.  Specific steps taken included:
   In March 1999,  we adopted an order streamlining the Section 214 authorization process;
 In May 1999, we adopted an order substantially revising and, in some cases, eliminating
          the International Settlements Policy.
 In June 1999, we adopted an order revising the settlement rate benchmark for facilities-
          based service on affiliated foreign routes.
  We also made fundamental changes to broadcast application and licensing procedures.
          These changes simplify, streamline, and  make more customer- friendly our rules,
          applications, and application procedures.
 In August 1999, we concluded our review of various ownership  rules, and modified  the
          Local TV “duopoly” restrictions and its local radio/TV cross-ownership restriction, as
          well as its national television ownership rule.  The FCC is currently considering
         additional changes to its ownership rules to conform to the current  marketplace as an
         additional implementation of the 1998 Biennial Regulatory Review.Performance was measured by a
determination that the 1998 Biennial
Regulatory Review was completed and by a
review of other actions taken during FY
1999 that further reduced rules that were
determined to no longer serve the public
interest.6We will complete relocation of the
FCC into a consolidated facility.Yes Relocation into a consolidated facility was successfully completed in May 1999. Performance was measured by the
completion of the relocation.
We will coordinate network
disclosure reporting requirements
under Section 251 and 273 of the
Communications Act to avoid any
duplicate or redundant disclosure
regulationsYes Section 251 network disclosures are placed on public notice typically within one week of
receipt.  The public notice indicates only that parties seeking information should visit the web
site. There have been no recorded complaints of this procedure or its overlapping with Section
273.Performance was measured by number of
complaints concerning overlap or
redundancy of network disclosure reporting
requirements under Section 251 and 273.
We will review the CCB Computer III
Court Remand to determine whether
any of the network disclosure rules
under Section 251(c)(5) duplicate or
even exceed the rules established
under the Computer II and Computer
III decisionsYes We eliminated the Computer III network disclosure rules in the Computer III Remand Order
issued in July 1999.Performance was measured by completion
of the Computer III Court Remand and any
changes made to network disclosure rules.
We will privatize the International
Telecommunications Settlements
(ITS) process.Yes We adopted an order ending our role as the maritime accounting authority in July 1999. Performance was measured by completion
of actions needed to privatize the
International Telecommunications
Settlements process.
We will determine whether
privatization of the electronic filing
functions lowers costs to the public
and improves their access to tariff
filings.No The FCC implemented an electronic tariff filing system (EFTS) that permits incumbent local
exchange carriers to submit federal tariffs and associated documents via the Internet.  Other
parties participating in tariff proceedings may also file tariff-related documents using ETFS.
ETFS also enables interested parties to access and download these documents over the Internet.
Due to limited resources devoted to Y2K related issues, the Bureau did not complete a
comprehensive review to determine whether the privatization of the electronic filing function
would be beneficial to our customers.Performance was measured by completion
of a determination of whether privatization
of the electronic filing functions lowers
costs to the public and improves their
access to tariff filings.
We will continue to hold public for a
and meet with our state regulatory
partners and consumer groups to
solicit input and feedback to ensure
our rules are in the public interest and
are the least burdensome to achieve
stated goalsYes During FY 1999, we conducted a number of important meetings and fora.  Chief among these
was the three public meetings held in May and June to discuss the FCC’s Draft Strategic Plan.
Members of the telecommunications industry (May 20), state and local government (June 2),
and academic and organizational experts (June 11) participated in- person and via the Internet.
The transcripts of each of these meetings were published at our website.  We continued to meet
with state regulatory partners and consumer groups and held a number of public fora.  Monthly
meetings were held with the North American Numbering Council and FCC representatives
attended every meeting of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commission.  FCC
staff attended a number of meetings in preparation for the upcoming World
Radiocommunications Conference. Staff attended bimonthly meetings with the Local and State
Government Advisory Committee. Finally, public fora were held to discuss a variety of issues
including implementation of Telecommunications Relay Services, proposals for streamlining
Part 68 terminal equipment registration, industry views on cable landing license policy and
procedures, and seminars on political programming rules.Performance was measured by a review of
the meetings and fora held during the fiscal
year.7Functional Area : Policy and Rulemaking
Objective: #2 We will encourage competition in the telecommunications industry through pro-competitive,
deregulatory rulemakings, reducing consumer costs and increasing the telecommunications choices available to
consumers.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will continue to implement the
local competition provisions of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.Yes The FCC released the following Reports and Orders implementing the local competition
provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996:
• Unbundling Remand Report and Order, the Collocation Order;
• the Line Sharing Order;
• the Review of Accounting and Cost Allocation Requirements and the Review of ARMIS
Reporting Requirements;
• the Pricing Flexibility Order (that also included an NPRM on whether CLEC access rates
         should be regulated).
Additionally, significant progress was made on two Access Reform Proceedings (X-factor
Remand and CALLS Petition).  Field work or audits and surveys concerning collocation,
number hoarding, and local number portability costs were completed as was a generic audit
program for Section 272 Biennial audits.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to promote competition.
We will work to improve the
connections of classrooms, libraries
and rural health care facilities to the
Internet by the end of FY 1999 and to
maintain affordable
telecommunications services to rural
America.Yes In Fiscal Year 1999, the FCC released an order extending first year funding for Schools and
Libraries (S&L) and for the Rural Heath Care (RHC) programs to allow more applicants to
participate.  We issued an order establishing  the second year funding level of the  S&L
program at $2.25 billion, and of the RHC program at $12 million,   We also issued orders
simplifying the process for rural health care providers to receive universal service support and
allowing non-ETCs  to obtain credit against their contributions for services provided to rural
health care providersPerformance was measured a review of
actions taken to promote connections of
classrooms, libraries, and rural health
facilities to the Internet.
We will make telecommunications
services and equipment accessible to
persons with disabilities by
completing a rulemaking to
implement Section 255 of the Act.Yes The FCC adopted and released an order implementing Section 255 of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996.  Additionally, we convened a public forum on access to 711, designated as the
nationwide number for Telecommunications Relay Services.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to promote the accessibility of
telecommunications services and equipment
to persons with disabilities.
We will make emergency information
carried on cable systems available to
persons with hearing disabilities.No A draft order adopting emergency information requirements has been prepared and final FCC
action is expected by March 31, 2000.Performance was measured by a review of
action taken to make emergency
information carried on cable systems
available to persons with hearing
disabilities.8We will ensure that public safety
groups have adequate spectrum and
advanced telecommunications
equipment by completing “The
Development of Operational,
Technical and Spectrum
Requirements for Meeting Federal,
State and Local Public Safety Agency
Communications Requirements
Through the Year 2010.”Yes In April 1999, the FCC adopted a Memorandum Opinion and Order addressing concerns raised
by American National Standard Institute and allowing the work of the Public Safety National
Coordination Committee (NCC) to proceed in a timely fashion, with the flexibility to operate
with increased efficiency.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to ensure adequate spectrum
and advanced telecommunications
equipment for public safety use.
We will continue implementation of
the World Trade Organization Basic
Services Agreement, which will allow
WTO-member nations to apply for
authorization to provide competitive
telecommunications services to U.S.
customers.Yes • In March 1999, the FCC adopted an order further streamlining the Section 214-
authorization process and rules regarding foreign notifications.  The FCC continues to
grant most applications to provide international telecommunications services, including
those from foreign-owned carriers, pursuant to a 14-day streamlined process.
• We also participated in regulator-to-regulator meetings covering topics such as
interconnection principles and independent and transparent regulatory regimes.
•  In August 1999, we authorized certain U.S. earth stations to provide fixed-satellite
services (FSS) to, from, and within the U.S. via New Skies Satellites, NV.Performance was measured by a review of
the actions taken to promote
implementation of the WTO Basic Services
Agreement.
We will implement an efficient, pro-
competitive procedure for the
administration of, and access to, N11
codes and other abbreviated dialing
arrangements.Yes The FCC is considering proposals from the United Way and the Department of Transportation
for establishment of a N11 code.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to implement an efficient, pro-
competitive procedure for administration of
and access to N11 codes.
We will apply, and continue to refine
pricing rules that allow incumbent
Local Exchange Carriers additional
flexibility in pricing interstate access
consistent with the development of
competition.Yes During 1999, we released the following orders refining the pricing rules for incumbent Local
Exchange Carriers:
• Order and FNPRM for Pricing Flexibility, Access Charge Reform;
•  Price Cap Performance Review for Local Exchange Carriers Order;
•  Inter-exchange Carrier Purchases of Switched Access Services offered by competitive
Local Exchange Carriers;
•  Petition of U S West Communications, Inc. for Forbearance from Regulation as a
Dominant Carrier in the Phoenix, Arizona MSA in August 1999.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to refine pricing rules to allow
additional flexibility to ILECs in pricing
interstate access.
We will continue to examine and
develop economic cost models to
ensure that these estimate the accurate
costs of providing unbundled network
elements and access services.Yes The FCC released an Order adopting final input values for the Commission’s cost model,
which is used to estimate the prospective costs of providing support services.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to develop economic cost
models that accurately estimate costs for
providing unbundled network element and
access services.
We will initiate rulemakings to update
Part 68 of our rules and regulations to
incorporate technological innovations.No The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on the deregulation of Part 68-equipment registration is
tentatively scheduled for consideration in March 2000.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to update Part 68 of the rules
and regulations.
We will implement procedures to
administer carrier identification codes
(CIC) in an efficient and
nondiscriminatory manner.Yes The three-to-four digit CIC conversion deadline was September 1, 1998.  During that time,
several waiver petitions were granted to accommodate the network plans of small carriers. The
last waiver expired on December 30, 1999 (Virgin Islands Telephone Company).Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to implement procedures to
administer carrier identification codes.9We will refine existing rules
concerning caller ID to respond to
consumer concerns about services that
use calling party numbers.Yes The FCC received very few calls concerning caller ID and currently has only two Petitions for
Reconsideration and one Petition for Review.  Consumer concerns are now handled as informal
complaints and additional refining of the existing rules appears to be unnecessary at this time.Performance was measured by a review of
consumer concerns received on this issue
and a determination of  the need for rule
changes.
We will establish procedures for
certification of rural carriers for
purposes of universal service high
cost support.No The FCC concluded in the Universal Service First Report and Order that reform of high-cost
support for rural carriers should not occur until January 1, 2001, at the earliest, and only after
recommendations have been received from the Joint Board, and a Rural Task Force appointed
by the Joint Board.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to establish procedures for
certification of rural carriers for universal
service high cost support.
We will initiate a rulemaking to
eliminate the requirement for
equipment manufacturers to obtain
waivers for equipment that
automatically takes the subscriber
lines “off-hook.”Yes Currently, waiver requests to take lines ‘off hook’ are judged by the standard set forth in an
order addressing the Part 68 Waiver Request of Alameda Engineering, Inc. (commonly referred
to as the Alameda Order).  The equipment waiver request process will be addressed  as
part of the Part 68 streamlining Notice of Proposed Rulemaking scheduled for consideration in
the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2000,Performance was measured by review of
actions taken to eliminate the requirement
for equipment manufacturers to obtain
waivers for this type of equipment.
We will streamline the
Telecommunications Relay Service
Fund administration procedures to
align it with other Commission
interstate cost-recovery programs.Yes The FCC changed the cost-recovery mechanism for the TRS Fund from a gross-revenues
formula to an end-user formula in our Streamlined Contributor Reporting Requirements Report
and Order, in accordance with the practices specified for several other funds mandated by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to streamline the TRS Fund
administration procedures.
We will continue to promote the
efficient use and allocation of toll free
numbers and deploy additional toll
free service.No The FCC anticipates releasing a Report and Order regarding the neutral administration of toll-
free numbers in April 2000.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to promote the efficient use
and allocation of toll-free numbers and
deploy additional toll-free service.
We will continue to participate in
global standard setting for
communications servicesYes In February 1999, the FCC proposed rules to implement the international arrangements
governing Global Mobile Personal Communications by Satellite (GMPCS) adopted by ITU.
The NPRM outlines a comprehensive procedure for licensing, marking, certification, and
customs treatment of GMPCS terminals.  It also proposes safeguards against potential
interference to existing aeronautical radiation services. In 1999, the FCC participated in the
Telecommunication Standardization, Radio Communications, and the Telecommunication
Development Sectors of the ITU and in a number of meetings in preparation for WRC 2000.Performance was measured by the
compilation of the number of actions taken
to promote global standard setting for
communications services.
We will continue to review the
regulatory status of dominant
common carriers to determine
whether reclassification or
forbearance is appropriate.Yes The FCC released five orders addressing several forbearance issues raised by mid-sized ILECs.
Additionally, the FCC began a review of a request by Bell Canada to be reclassified as a
nondominant carrier for the U.S.-Canada route.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to review the regulatory status
of dominant common carriers.
We will continue to review whether
merger and transfer of control
requests are in the public interest.Yes The FCC reviewed and approved a number of mergers and transfer of control requests to
determine if they would benefit the public interest, including MCI Telecommunication
Corporation / Echostar; Lockheed Martin/Comsat; Frontier/Global Crossing; Airtouch
Communications/Vodafone; AT&T / British Telecommunications; USSB/DIRECTV,  and
Tempo Satellite, Inc./DIRECTV Enterprises, Inc.Performance was measured in terms of
timely completion of the review of the
requests.10Functional Area : Policy and Rulemaking
Objective:  #3 We will reduce reporting requirements and eliminate unnecessary rules and burdensome
regulations.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will conduct a review of our rules
and regulations in FY 1998 to
determine which can be eliminated or
revised.  In FY 1999, we will initiate
rulemakings to eliminate obsolete or
overlapping regulatory and/or
reporting requirements.Yes The FCC conducted an agency-wide biennial review in 1998.  Based on this review, we took
the following actions in 1999:
• In common carrier issues, we released 9 orders and 1 policy statement addressing  matters
that were identified as no longer necessary:
• We made fundamental changes to the broadcast application and licensing procedures.
These changes simplify, streamline, and make our rules, application procedures, and
reporting forms more user friendly.  We also updated and streamlined our broadcast rules
and modified the local TV “duopoly” restrictions and our local radio/TV cross-ownership
rules.
• The FCC made significant progress in streamlining our procedures for satellite and other
international application processing issues.   We issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
recommending streamlining and consolidating service rules governing the Direct Satellite
Broadcast (DBS) service to eliminate unnecessary and duplicative regulation, increase
competition to the cable television industry, and facilitate the delivery of new and
innovative services to consumers. We adopted an order streamlining the Section 214
authorization process that will allow 99 percent of all applications to be processed in
fourteen days.  We adopted an order substantially revising and, in some cases, eliminating
the International Settlements Policy. We announced that we will automatically grant
routine satellite earth station applications proposing use of the Ku-band and
communicating with all satellites authorized to provide service to the U.S. within 35 days
from the date of the public notice (provided no objections have been filed). Finally, we
released an order substantially revising the settlement rate benchmark condition for
facilities-based service on affiliated foreign routes.
• The FCC completed its comprehensive streamlining of wireless licensing rules in the
Universal Licensing System rulemaking, Issuing a Memorandum Opinion and Order in
June 1999.  We also initiated a rulemaking focusing on streamlining of its Part 90 rules for
private land mobile radio services, and completed a rulemaking that simplified and
streamlined the Part 97 Amateur Radio Service rules.Performance was measured by confirmation
of the completion of an agency-wide
biennial review during FY 1998 and by a
review of actions taken during FY 1999 to
eliminate obsolete or overlapping regulatory
and/or reporting requirements.11Functional Area : Enforcement
Objective:  #1 We will streamline our complaints process and procedures to ensure timely and satisfactory
resolution of consumer complaints.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will increase the number of
pending routine informal common
carrier complaints disposed of by
10%.No We encountered formidable technical problems with our automated informal complaints
system. The most important issue was the system was not Y2K compliant.  To upgrade it to
make it compliant required substantial resources,  raising issues on whether the current system
should be revised or completely replaced.  A thorough review of alternative approaches was
not completed until late in the fiscal year.  Currently, we are making every effort to upgrade the
system as quickly as possible.  In the meantime, we have hired additional temporary clerks to
assist us in processing current complaints as expeditiously as possible.Performance was measured through an
analysis of the Quarterly Workload
Reports that document the Speed of
Disposal of informal consumer
complaints.
We will increase the number of
informal complaints served on
telephone companies by 10%.No See above. See above.
We will improve the Speed of
Disposal for routine informal
common carrier complaints by 20%.No See above See above.
We will reduce the number of active
formal common carrier complaints
pending longer than 15 months
by15%.Yes The FCC exceeded this goal by reducing the number of active pending formal common carrier
complaints by 21% over Fiscal Year 1998 levels.Performance was measured by a review
and analysis of the Quarterly Workload
Reports.
We will reduce the response time on
Telephone Relay Service or Hearing
Aid Compatibility complaints by
50%.Yes Only one such complaint was received and its resolution, and the resolution of any future
complaints received, was folded into the TRS rulemaking scheduled for the February 2000
Commission meeting.  Additional attention is now given to this issue as a result of the
organizational restructuring recently completed by the FCC.Performance was measured by a review of
the actions taken to resolve these kinds of
complaints more quickly.
We will review broadcast and cable
enforcement processes and eliminate
inefficient procedures and practices.Yes During FY 1999, the Commission released an NPRM proposing and requesting comments on
new broadcast and cable EEO rules and policies in light of the Lutheran Church  appellate case,
which declared certain sections of the Commission’s EEO rules unconstitutional.  In
promulgating the NPRM, the Commission sought to streamline EEO requirements as much as
possible while maintaining an effective EEO program for the broadcast and cable industries.Performance was measured by actions
taken to eliminate inefficient procedures
and practices.12Functional Area : Enforcement
Objective:  #2 We will work as a partner with the private sector and with federal, state and local governments
in the investigation and resolution of shared telecommunications problems focusing particularly on issues
affecting the safety of life and property.  This will ensure that problem resolution is achieved quickly, at the least
possible cost and with state and local interests duly considered.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will continue to work closely with
other Federal agencies, state
commissions and the public to ensure
the expeditious processing of Bell
Operating Company Section 271
applications.Yes We have an ex parte  exemption that permits free communication between the FCC and the
Department of Justice and state regulators, allowing the close coordination and review of 271
applications.Performance was measured by a review of
the actions taken to ensure appropriate input
from Federal and state representatives and
consumers while Section 271 applications
receive expeditious processing.
We will continue to work with state
regulatory commissions in conducting
federal/state audits of the Regional
Bell Operating Companies and other
common carriers.Yes We are working closely with the states on the Bell Atlantic 272 biennial audits.  This audit
program will be completed in early Fiscal Year 2000.Performance is measured by review of
action taken to work with the states in
conducting the audits.
We will enforce the provisions of the
Communications Assistance to Law
Enforcement Act over which the FCC
has responsibility by overseeing the
implementation of the Commission’s
system security and integrity
regulations and by adjudicating
petitions promptly.Yes The FCC is required by CALEA Section 201 (47 USC § 229) to promulgate and enforce
regulations governing  the conduct of electronic surveillance of telecommunications carriers.
We issued two reports and Orders in 1999 detailing specific requirements for electronic
surveillance.  Forms needed to implement the program are currently under review at OMB.Performance is measured by review of
actions taken to implement and enforce the
FCC’s system security and integrity
regulations under CALEA.
We will ensure that access charges to
the Telephone Relay Service (hearing
and speech impaired) users from pay
phones do not exceed the rates of
traditional calls made from standard
coin-operated pay phones.Yes The Telephone Relay Service Order will be considered by the Commission in February 2000. Performance is measured by review of
actions taken to review access charges for
TRS from pay phones.13We will meet with field
representatives from the
telecommunications industry at least
semi-annually to identify the most
significant recurring communications
problems and develop a plan to
correct and prevent them.Yes FCC staff meet with the International Telecommunications Association (ITA) monthly,
Personal Communications Industry Association (PCIA) quarterly, and the Association of
Public-Safety Communications Officials, Inc. (APCO) semi-annually. In addition to these
routine meetings, we also held a public forum to solicit industry views on cable landing license
policies and procedures. In May, we initiated talks with members of the satellite industry to
identify and discuss ways to further streamline the Part 25 earth station licensing process.
Other pertinent meetings included several gatherings of FCC staff and industry representatives
on issues concerning third generation wireless/IMT-2000 and sharing between the fixed service
and the fixed-satellite service in various frequency bands.Performance was measured by a review of
the meetings and fora held during the fiscal
year.
We will continue to work with other
Federal agencies, state commissions,
and state attorneys general to protect
the public interest, especially in the
area of consumer related complaints,
including when it involves unlawful
activity by foreign entities that affect
American telecommunications users.Yes FCC staff met every month with members of the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration’s WRC-2000 preparatory group to develop government proposals
for World Radio Conference-2000.  FCC staff also participated in a number of ad hoc  meetings
to discuss specific issues concerning our WRC-2000 proposals. FCC staff also works closely
with the United States Trade Representative to ensure that other countries comply with WTO
commitments.Performance was measured by a review of
the meetings held with other Federal
agencies and representatives from the states
on these issues.14Functional Area : Enforcement
Objective:  #3 We will identify industry and consumer issues through customer feedback on the impact of our
rules, the levels of enforcement, the effects of non-enforcement and the need for revisions to our enforcement
policies and procedures.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will streamline our inspection
procedures by privatizing the
inspection and certification of ocean-
going vessels.Yes The FCC streamlined its inspection procedures by privatizing the certification of ocean-going
vessels ahead of schedule in Fiscal Year 1998.Performance was measured by a review of
the results of these inspections.
We will continue to monitor potential
anti-competitive behavior by carriers
in providing information services.Yes The FCC continued to monitor incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (LECs) in providing access
to services and facilities to their competitors for providing information services. In Fiscal Year
1999, several Information Service Providers (ISPs) complained informally about the
discriminatory conduct of some ILECs but the FCC did not find sufficient evidence to warrant
enforcement actions.Performance was measured by reviewing
and monitoring actions taken to identify
anti-competitive behavior by carriers in
providing information services.
We will meet with industry and the
public to discuss current
telecommunications concerns and
complaints.  We will identify the
main consumer complaints
concerning telecommunications
services and coordinate agency-wide
actions to resolve them.Yes The FCC has held numerous meetings with industry and the public to discuss current concerns
and complaints.  The three public fora held to obtain feedback on our Draft Strategic Plan have
been mentioned previously in this report. FCC staff routinely attended and participated in panel
discussions at national and regional trade association conferences and conventions.  In addition
to sending representatives to speak at meetings, the FCC provided extensive telephone and in-
person conferences on consumer issues.Performance was measured by a review of
the meetings and fora held during the fiscal
year.
We will continue to meet and work
with the land mobile industry to
resolve complicated land mobile
interference problems.Yes The FCC held meetings with the Industrial Telecommunications Association, the Personal
Communications Industry Association, and the Association of Public Safety Communications
Officers to resole complicated land mobile interference problems.  Through Memoranda of
Understanding with the major frequency coordinators, the FCC continued to work closely with
the land mobile industry to resolve complicated interference problems that the industry was not
able to resolve on its own. Approximately 80% of interference cases are resolved by the
industry, and the remaining cases are referred to the FCC for intervention.Performance was measured by both a
review of the meetings held and the
Memoranda generated to resolve these
interference problems and by action taken
to establish procedures for FCC
intervention.
We will continue to enforce rules
against unauthorized activity by pirate
radio operators.Yes The FCC continued to enforce rules against unauthorized activity by known FM pirate radio
operators.  Cases in which  our field offices were unable to obtain a voluntary termination of
the unlicensed  operation were referred to the Department of JusticePerformance was measured by a review of
actions taken to enforce rules against
unauthorized activity by pirate radio
operators.15Functional Area : Enforcement
Objective:  #4 We will utilize the latest technology to minimize interference resolution time and increase
overall customer satisfaction by resolving complaints in a timely fashion.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will enhance our capabilities to
resolve radio interference problems in
a more effective and efficient manner
by updating 15% (2 of 14) of the
long-range medium and high
frequency radio direction finding
systems, as budget permits.Yes The FCC exceeded the goal by updating 86% (12 of 14) of the long-range medium and high
frequency radio direction finding systems.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to update long-range medium
and high frequency radio direction finding
systems.
We will enhance our capabilities to
resolve radio interference problems in
a more effective and efficient manner
by updating 15% (9 of 60) of our
mobile direction finding fleet to the
latest technology to ensure
compatibility with new
communications services such as PCS
and DTV, as budget permits.Yes The FCC exceeded this goal by updating 17% (10 of 60) of the mobile direction finding fleet to
the latest technology.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to update the mobile direction
finding fleet to the latest technology.
We will enhance our capabilities to
resolve radio interference problems in
a more effective and efficient manner
by enhancing the capability of
remotely controlled direction finder
systems and installing one new
system to cover areas where
customers are not adequately served,
as budget permits.Yes The FCC met this goal by enhancing (upgrading) the capability of the remotely controlled
direction finder system at Headquarters (Washington, DC) and by installing a new system at
the Los Angeles Field Office.Performance was measured by a review of
action taken to enhance the FCC’s
capabilities to resolve radio interference
problems by enhancing the capability of
remotely controlled direction finder systems
and by installing new systems where
needed.16Functional Area : Public Information
Objective:  #1 We will provide “one stop” information shopping through consolidation of our public reference
rooms and other information services.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will complete the implementation
of the National Call Center in
Gettysburg, PA to provide “one stop
shopping” for telephone inquiries.Yes The FCC has completed the implementation of a National Call Center at Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania. In Fiscal Year 1999, the FCC also completed all planning for consolidation of its
public information service activities early in Fiscal Year 2000.  As part of this consolidation
initiative, the FCC will open a second Call Center (renaming these centers the Consumer
Information Centers) at our new Portals location to expand and improve “one stop shopping”
for public information inquiries.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to complete implementation
of the National Call Center in Gettysburg.
We will consolidate nine reference
rooms into one, once we move to our
new consolidated facility.Yes The FCC completed the consolidation of the nine reference rooms into one with the completion
of the move to our new Portals facility in May 1999.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to complete the consolidation
as a part of the move to the Portals facility.
We will provide our customers with
on-line access to Common Carrier
Bureau network disclosure filings.Yes The public is notified of network disclosure filings via a Public Notice, which is also published
in the FCC’s Daily Digest. Interested parties are notified that copies of the notice are available
either on-line at the FCC Website or in hard copy from the Office of the Secretary or the Public
Reference Room.Performance was measured by a review of
action taken to provide customers with on-
line access to network disclosure filings.17Functional Area : Public Information
Objective:  #2 We will design our information systems for Internet applications as well as other media to ensure
rapid and efficient dissemination of information to our customers.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date
for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will publish the National Call
Center’s Information Knowledge
base on the Internet allowing
quicker, 24-hour access to current
FCC information.Yes The FCC has created web sites that provide 24-hour access to a wide variety of current FCC
information.Performance was measured by a review of
action taken to develop Internet sites that
provide 24-hour access to FCC information.
We will design and implement
Internet-compatible licensing
applications for Mass Media and
International Bureau licensing
systems.Partially Met The International Bureau designed and implemented the International Bureau Electronic Filing
System (IBFS), which is accessible through any computer with Internet access.  The system
allows users to complete applications at their own pace and has a validation process that
ensures required data fields are filled out and that certain types of applications can be filed.
The IBFS system also possesses a powerful search engine and a variety of on-line report and
query capabilities.
Design work on the Mass Media Bureau’s CDBS and MDS/ITFS license processing systems
have been completed.  However, implementation of these systems was delayed due to a
combination of Y2K compliancy issues and lack of adequate funding to complete installation.
Both systems are scheduled for release to the public by the end of the 2nd Quarter of FY 2000.Performance was measured by the
completion of design and implementation of
systems designed for Internet compatibility.
We will publish commercial
television stations Children’s
Television Programming Reports
on the Internet for public review
and comment.Yes Commercial television stations’ Children’s Television Programming Reports, through calendar
year 1998, are available at our website as of February 1999.Performance was measured by the
publication of the Children’s Television
Programming Reports on the Internet.
We will implement procedures to
allow incumbent Local Exchange
Carriers to file ARMIS data
electronically via the Internet.Yes We have designed an electronic filing system for ARMIS reports that is Internet accessible. Performance was measured by completion
of actions begun under the 1998 Biennial
Regulations Review – Review of ARMIS
Reporting Requirements.
We will expand the FCC’s “fax-
on-demand” system to
organizations such as PTAs,
libraries and consumer groups.Yes The FCC Consumer Centers (previously known as Call Centers) at both Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. are equipped with “fax on demand.”  Information is
routinely sent to interested groups.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to establish “fax on demand”
systems at the Consumer Centers.18We will implement an internal
Electronic Document Management
System to streamline the
preparation, printing and
publication of all official FCC
documents.No Development work was completed on the Electronic Document Management System (EDOCS)
in Fiscal Year 1999.  The system did not go into production as scheduled due to diversion of
needed resources to Y2k readiness projects and the need to upgrade our network infrastructure.
The system will be implemented in the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2000, if additional
funding resources can be identified.Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to implement an internal
Electronic Document Management System.
We will electronically deliver FCC
news items to interested parties and
provide “camera ready” articles on
various consumer
telecommunications-related issues
to weekly community newspapers
across the country.Yes More than 6,000 subscribers received electronic copies of the FCC Daily Digest.  Late-
breaking stories were routinely e-mailed to telecommunications reporters throughout the year.
Five camera-ready articles were prepared and distributed to approximately 6,500 community
newspapers.  The issues covered by these articles were area codes, religious programming,
cable rates, and the v-chip (2 articles).Performance was measured by a review of
actions taken to electronically deliver FCC
news items to interested parties and to
provide “camera-ready” articles on various
consumer telecommunications related
issues to weekly community newspaper.19Functional Area : Public Information
Objective:  #3 We will encourage public participation in all FCC proceedings to ensure all parties’ views are
heard and that there is speedy resolution of issues.
1999 Performance GoalsGoal
Met?
(Y/N)1999 Actual Performance
(If goal not met, provide explanation, planned remedy, and target date for meeting goal) Method of Measurement
(Performance Indicators)
We will develop an automated listing
of organizations/groups interested in
participating in FCC proceedings.Yes The FCC has developed an initial listing of organizations and groups interested in participating
in FCC proceedings.  This list is maintained in the Consumer Education Office of the
Consumer Information Bureau.Performance is measured by the
development of an automated listing of
organizations and groups interested in
participating in FCC proceedings.
We will establish a lending library
and viewing/listening room where the
public can view and listen to FCC
open proceedings and information
programs.Yes The FCC has a tape library and provides facilities where the public can view and listen to FCC
open meetings and public fora.  Additionally, open meetings are also covered by C-SPAN for
viewing on cable television.Performance is measured by the availability
of a FCC library and by the ability of the
public to view and/or listen to FCC open
proceedings and information programs.
We will routinely host public fora to
discuss a broad range of legal, policy
and technical issues raised in various
FCC rulemaking proceedings.Yes FCC staff has participated on panels and public speaking engagements concerning cable
matters, met with pending applicants in the second Ka-band processing round to discuss
potential technical solutions for resolving mutual exclusivity, held a forum with industry
representatives on streamlining issues, including demonstrations to inform industry on
electronic filing and ULS, hosted a public forum on technical issues associated with E911
technology, including TTY compatibility, and provided training to the public on use of the new
experimental licensing and  IBFS electronic filing systems prior to their implementation.  A
public forum was conducted for every auction event.   The FCC also continuously updates its
website to include the latest information of interest to the public.Performance was measured by a review of
the number of public appearances by FCC
staff and comments to the FCC website.20Program Evaluations .  In Fiscal Year 1999 the FCC completed a number of agency-wide reviews. These included
• Consolidation of our Enforcement and Consumer Information Activities . The FCC is currently structured along the traditional technology lines of wire, wireless,
satellite, broadcast, and cable communications. This organizational model no longer reflects the industries we oversee.  We have determined that the FCC must reorganize
along functional rather than technology lines to allow us to perform our core responsibilities more effectively.  One of our major performance goals for our Fiscal Year
Annual Performance Plan was to complete work on consolidating our consumer information and enforcement functions. Our enforcement activities were distributed among
all our major bureaus while our consumer information services activities were more centrally located between two organizations.
Before we could consolidate these activities, we had to review the current resources, including staffing and information technology support systems to identify what the new
business model should include and to determine the best means to proceed with the consolidation.  Extensive reviews were conducted throughout the fiscal year and a
reorganization plan was completed that was implemented on November 11, 1999.
• Year 2000 Readiness Review .  The FCC conducted independent testing of all twenty-three mission-critical systems to verify that the systems were ready for the
millennium. The system tests were conducted by an independent contractor and tested on separate test hardware.  In addition, our Computer Security Office successfully
completed assessments of all our new major applications designed for use within the FCC network.  Eight application reviews were conducted to ensure compliance with
relevant OMB guidance on computer-based system development and management, including OMB Circular A-123, Management Accountability and Control, OMB
Circular A-27, Financial Management Systems, and OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources.
• Revisions to our Strategic Plan and Strategic Planning Process .  In March and May 1999, Chairman William Kennard, along with the other FCC Commissioners,
testified before our Congressional oversight committees.  As part of his testimony Chairman Kennard submitted a draft report, “A New FCC for the 21st Century.”  This
report served as a conceptual framework for FCC senior managers to meet and develop a new framework for our Strategic Plan.  Part of this process was a review of all our
organizations and functions to ascertain if they were still essential to the agency’s newly defined core functions.
We also gathered extensive input from our stakeholders through three public fora seeking the views of general industry, consumer, state, and local government
representatives, academic and organizational experts, and from Commission staff.  The feedback provided at these fora focused on similar themes: (1) universal service,
consumer protection and information; (2) enforcement and promotion of competitive markets domestically and worldwide; and (3) spectrum management.  We incorporated
many of these themes into the draft Strategic Plan that we submitted to Congress in August 1999 and in our draft Annual Performance Plan.
• Business Process Re-Engineering/Electronic Filing Initiatives .  In Fiscal Year 1999, the FCC completed planning for consolidating, streamlining and providing
electronic filing capabilities for all major Mass Media Bureau licensing systems.  Before design work could begin, a complete analysis of workload processes was
completed to identify outdated, duplicative, or unnecessary processes and procedures.  While all planning work was completed, system implementation was deferred due to
lack of adequate funding and the need to address higher priority, Year-2000 issues.