Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
Before the
Federal Communications Commission
Washington, D.C. 20554
In the Matter of
Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules 
Regarding the Emergency Alert System
Wireless Emergency Alerts
Protecting the Nation’s Communications Systems 
from Cybersecurity Threats)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)PS Docket No. 15-94
PS Docket No. 15-91
PS Docket No. 22-329
NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING
Adopted:  October 27, 2022 Released: October 27, 2022
Comment Date: (30 days after date of publication in the Federal Register)
Reply Comment Date: (60 days after date of publication in the Federal Register)
By the Commission: Chairwoman Rosenworcel and Commissioner Starks issuing separate statements.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Para.
I. INTRODUCTION...................................................................................................................................1
II. BACKGROUND.....................................................................................................................................2
A. Emergency Alert System ..................................................................................................................2
B. Wireless Emergency Alerts...............................................................................................................6
III. DISCUSSION..........................................................................................................................................9
A. Promoting the Operational Readiness of EAS Equipment ...............................................................9
B. Improving Awareness of Unauthorized Access to EAS Equipment...............................................13
C. Protecting the Nation’s Alerting Systems through the Development, Implementation, and 
Certification of a Cybersecurity Risk Management Plan................................................................22
1. EAS Security ............................................................................................................................22
2. WEA Security...........................................................................................................................33
D. Displaying Only Valid WEA Messages on Mobile Devices ..........................................................37
E. WEA Infrastructure Functionality ..................................................................................................41
F. Promoting Digital Equity................................................................................................................42
G. Compliance Timeframes.................................................................................................................44
IV. PROCEDURAL MATTERS.................................................................................................................49
V. ORDERING CLAUSES........................................................................................................................55
APPENDIX A - Proposed Rules
APPENDIX B - Initial Regulatory Flexibility AnalysisFederal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
2I. INTRODUCTION
1. The security of the nation’s alert and warning systems is essential to helping safeguard 
the lives and property of all Americans.  Over the years, the Federal Communications Commission 
(Commission) has encouraged stakeholders to ensure their systems are secure, including by providing 
guidance on specific steps that communications providers can take to secure their equipment.  While the 
Emergency Alert System (EAS) and Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) programs are strong, we must 
remain vigilant and proactive to ensure they remain so.  In this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Notice), 
we seek comment on ways to strengthen the operational readiness of EAS equipment.  We also propose to 
require EAS Participants1 to report compromises of their EAS equipment, communications systems, and 
services to the Commission.  In addition, we propose to require EAS Participants and Commercial Mobile 
Service (CMS) providers that participate in WEA (Participating CMS Providers) to annually certify to 
having a cybersecurity risk management plan in place and to employ sufficient security measures to 
ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their respective alerting systems.  We also propose 
to require Participating CMS Providers to take steps to ensure that only valid alerts are displayed on 
consumer devices.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Emergency Alert System
2. The EAS is a national public warning system through which broadcasters, cable systems, 
and other EAS Participants deliver alerts to the public to warn them of impending emergencies and 
dangers to life and property.2  The primary purpose of the EAS is to provide the President with “the 
capability to provide immediate communications and information to the general public at the National, 
State and Local Area levels during periods of national emergency.”3  The EAS is also used to distribute 
alerts issued by state, local, Tribal, and territorial governments, as well as by the National Weather 
Service (NWS).  Although EAS Participants are required to broadcast Presidential alerts, they participate 
in broadcasting state and local EAS alerts on a voluntary basis.4  The Commission, the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the NWS implement the EAS at the federal level.5
1 The Commission’s rules define EAS Participants as analog radio broadcast stations, including AM, FM, and Low-
power FM stations; digital audio broadcasting stations, including digital AM, FM, and Low-power FM stations; 
Class A television and Low-power TV stations; digital television broadcast stations, including digital Class A and 
digital Low-power TV stations; analog cable systems; digital cable systems; wireline video systems; wireless cable 
systems; direct broadcast satellite service providers; and digital audio radio service providers.  See 47 CFR 
§ 11.11(a).
2 See, e.g., Review of the Emergency Alert System; Independent Spanish Broadcasters Association, The Office of 
Communication of the United Church of Christ, Inc., and the Minority Media and Telecommunications Council, 
Petition for Immediate Relief, ET Docket No. 04-296, Fifth Report and Order, 27 FCC Rcd 642, 646, para. 6 (2012) 
(Fifth Report and Order); Review of the Emergency Alert System, EB Docket No. 04-296, Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, 19 FCC Rcd 15775, 15776-77, paras. 6-8 (2004).
3 47 CFR § 11.1.  Under the Part 11 rules, national activation of the EAS for a Presidential alert message, initiated 
by the transmission of an Emergency Action Notification (EAN) event code, is designed to provide the President the 
capability to transmit an alert message (in particular, an audio alert message) to the American public within ten 
minutes from any location at any time and must take priority over any other alert message and preempt other alert 
messages in progress.  See, e.g., Review of the Emergency Alert System, First Report and Order, 20 FCC Rcd. 18625, 
18628, para. 8 (2005) (First Report and Order).  See also, e.g., 47 CFR §§ 11.33(a)(11), 11.51(m), (n).
4 See 47 CFR § 11.55(a); First Report and Order, 20 FCC Rcd at 18628, para. 8.
5 The respective roles of the Commission, FEMA, and NWS are defined in a series of Executive documents.  See 
1981 State and Local Emergency Broadcasting System (EBS) Memorandum of Understanding Among the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the National Industry Advisory Committee (NIAC) reprinted as 
(continued….)Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
33. The EAS is a broadcast-based, hierarchical alert message distribution system in which an 
alert message originator at the local, state, or national level encodes (or arranges to have encoded) a 
message in the EAS Protocol.6  The alert is then broadcast from one or more EAS Participants, and 
subsequently relayed from one station to another until all affected EAS Participants have received the 
alert and delivered it to the public.7  Authorized emergency alert authorities also distribute EAS alerts 
over the Internet to EAS Participants by formatting those alerts in the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP), 
and delivering those alerts through the FEMA-administered Integrated Public Alert and Warning System 
(IPAWS) Open Platform for Emergency Networks (IPAWS-OPEN).8  The integrity of the EAS is 
maintained through the Commission’s EAS rules, which set forth the parameters and frequency with 
which EAS Participants must test the system,9 prohibit the unauthorized use of the EAS Attention Signal 
and codes,10 and require EAS Participants to keep their EAS equipment in good working order.11
4. In the last decade, the Commission has become aware of several incidents that raise 
concerns about the security of the EAS.  The Commission previously highlighted a 2013 incident in 
which malicious actors accessed EAS equipment at several TV stations to perpetrate a “zombie attack” 
hoax that affected television stations in Great Falls, Montana, the vicinity of Marquette, Michigan, and 
other stations in Michigan, Utah, New Mexico and California.12  The Commission observed that the 
attack could have been prevented had the EAS Participants changed manufacturer default passwords on 
their EAS equipment, installed firewalls, or taken other appropriate security measures.13  In 2020, hackers 
compromised the EAS systems of an EAS Participant in Jefferson County, Washington and caused the 
transmission of false EAS alerts describing a false Radiological Hazard Warning that affected 
approximately 3,000 homes.14  In 2020, the Commission became aware of instances in which EAS 
equipment connected to the Internet were potentially vulnerable to IP-based attacks due to inadequate 
network security or unsecure device settings.15  The Commission warned all EAS Participants of this 
vulnerability, encouraging them to secure their EAS equipment by installing current security patches, and 
Appendix K to Partnership for Public Warning Report 2004-1, The Emergency Alert System (EAS): An 
Assessment; Memorandum, Presidential Communications with the General Public During Periods of National 
Emergency, The White House (Sept. 15, 1995) (1995 Presidential Statement); and Public Alert and Warning 
System, Exec. Order No. 13407, 71 Fed. Reg. 36975 (June 26, 2006).
6 See 47 CFR § 11.31.
7 See Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System; Wireless 
Emergency Alerts, PS Docket Nos. 15-94 and 15-91, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Notice of Inquiry, 36 FCC 
Rcd 6266, 6271, paras. 8-9 (March 17, 2021) for a description of this process.
8 See 47 CFR § 11.56; see also Fifth Report and Order, 27 FCC Rcd at 644-45, para. 4.
9 See 47 CFR § 11.61.
10 See 47 CFR §§ 11.45(a), 11.46.
11 See 47 CFR § 11.35; see also 47 CFR § 11.32 (EAS Encoder); 47 CFR § 11.33 (EAS Decoder) (collectively 
describing the minimum operating requirements for EAS equipment).
12 Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, Wireless Emergency 
Alerts, PS Docket Nos. 15-94 and 15-91, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 31 FCC Rcd 594, 638, para. 98 (2016) 
(2016 Notice).
13 Id.
14 Peninsula Daily News, False Emergency Alerts Sent to Jefferson County Cable Users, 
https://www.peninsuladailynews.com/news/false-emergency-alerts-sent-to-jefferson-county-cable-users/ (last visited 
Aug. 10, 2022); KOMO News, Viewers Sent Apparent Hacked Emergency Broadcast Message in Jefferson County, 
https://komonews.com/news/local/viewers-sent-apparent-hacked-emergency-broadcast-message-in-jefferson-county 
(last visited Aug. 10, 2022).
15 See E-mail from Lisa M. Fowlkes, Chief, PSHSB, FCC to EAS Participants (April 24, 2020 2:03 am EDT).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
4using firewalls.16  Most recently, on August 1, 2022, FEMA issued an advisory on a potential 
vulnerability in certain EAS encoder/decoder devices that have not been updated to most recent software 
versions.17  FEMA observed that if EAS devices are not up-to-date, an unauthorized actor could issue 
false EAS alerts over the EAS Participant’s infrastructure.  The FCC’s Public Safety and Homeland 
Security Bureau (PSHSB or Bureau) subsequently released a Public Notice that identified this 
vulnerability as the same one from 2020, urging all EAS Participants, regardless of the make and model 
of their EAS equipment, to upgrade their equipment software and firmware to the most recent versions 
recommended by the manufacturer and secure their equipment behind a properly configured firewall as 
soon as possible.18
5. In 2016, the Commission adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposed 
several improvements to EAS, including improvements that could potentially secure the EAS against 
accidental misuse and malicious intrusion.19  Specifically, the Commission proposed to require EAS 
Participants to certify as to the performance of certain security measures that demonstrated 
implementation of the best practices recommended by the Communications Security, Reliability, and 
Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV’s EAS Security Report;20 require reporting for false alerts and 
“lockouts”; and ensure the proper authentication and validation of alerts to protect against malicious or 
accidental misuse of alerting platforms.21  The 2016 Notice also sought comment on whether there were 
additional measures that the Commission could leverage to help make the EAS more secure and resilient, 
such as adoption of a software-defined networking approach to EAS infrastructure design.22  The 
Commission followed up in 2018 by adopting new rules related to false alert reporting,23 alert 
authentication,24 and alert validation,25 but did not act on the other security proposals from the 2016 
Notice.26
16 Id.
17 See FEMA, IPAWS Advisory: Emergency Alert System Vulnerability (Aug. 1, 2022), 
https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/USDHSFEMA/bulletins/3263326.
18 Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau Urges Emergency Alert System (EAS) Participants to Take 
Immediate Steps to Secure EAS Equipment, PS Docket No. 15-94, Public Notice, DA 22-828 (PSHSB Aug. 5, 
2022).
19 2016 Notice.
20 CSRIC IV, Emergency Alert System, EAS Security Subcommittee, Initial Report (2014), 
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG-3_Initial-Report_061814.pdf (CSRIC IV Initial EAS 
Security Report).  See also CSRIC IV, Emergency Alert System, EAS Security Subcommittee, Final Report, (2015), 
https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG3-EAS_SECURITY_FINAL_011316.pdf (CSRIC IV 
Final EAS Security Report).
21 2016 Notice, 31 FCC Rcd at 596-97, para. 4.
22 Id.
23 Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, Wireless Emergency 
Alerts, PS Docket Nos. 15-94 and 15-91, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 33 FCC 
Rcd 7086, 7094-95, paras. 17-18 (2018) (2018 Order) (requiring that EAS Participants notify the FCC within 24 
hours of their discovery that it has transmitted or otherwise sent a false alert to the public).
24 Id. at 7095-96, paras. 19-22 (requiring that EAS Participants configure their systems to reject all CAP-formatted 
EAS messages that contain an invalid digital signature, but declining to adopt authentication requirements for EAS 
Protocol-formatted EAS messages).
25 Id. at 7097-99, paras. 23-29.
26 Id. at 7087, n.1 (deferring on consideration of issues not described in the 2018 Order).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
5B. Wireless Emergency Alerts
6. WEA is a tool for authorized federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial government 
entities to geographically target alerts and warnings to WEA-capable mobile devices of Participating 
CMS Providers’ subscribers.  The Warning Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act establishes WEA 
as a voluntary system in which CMS providers may elect to participate and gives the Commission 
authority to adopt “relevant technical standards, protocols, procedures and other technical 
requirements . . . necessary to enable commercial mobile service alerting capability for commercial 
mobile service providers that voluntarily elect to transmit emergency alerts.”27  Pursuant to this authority, 
the Commission has adopted requirements to prescribe WEA capabilities, WEA testing, and WEA 
election procedures.28  While participation by wireless providers is voluntary, those that offer the service 
must adhere to the technical and operational requirements established by the Commission.
7. WEA works as follows:  an alert originator29 uses FEMA-approved alert origination 
software to send a WEA Alert Message30 in the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) to IPAWS.31  There, 
the alert is authenticated, validated, and delivered to FEMA’s Alert Gateway for dissemination to 
Participating CMS Providers’ Alert Gateways.32  Currently, FEMA only transmits to Participating CMS 
Providers information about the Alert Message that is necessary for mobile devices to present Alert 
Messages to subscribers (e.g., message content, geographic target area coordinates if applicable, and a 
unique message identifier).  FEMA removes all other metadata from the Alert Message (e.g., the time at 
which the Alert Message was initiated by the alert originator).33  Participating CMS Providers are required 
to log all of the Alert Message data that they receive at their Alert Gateways, including the time of 
receipt, maintain those logs for at least 12 months, and make them available upon request to the 
Commission, FEMA, and emergency management agencies that offer sufficient confidentiality 
protection.34  While the Commission’s WEA rules are technologically neutral, most Participating CMS 
27 Warning, Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act, Pub. L. No. 109-347, title VI, 120 Stat. 1936, § 602(a) 
(2006) (WARN Act) (codified at 47 U.S.C. § 1201(a)); see also 47 U.S.C. § 1201(b)(2)(d) (instructing the 
Commission to establish a procedure for mobile service providers to withdraw their election to participate in WEA 
without penalty or forfeiture).
28 See, e.g., The Commercial Mobile Alert System, PS Docket No. 07-287, First Report and Order, 23 FCC Rcd 6144 
(2008); The Commercial Mobile Alert System, PS Docket No. 07-287, Second Report and Order and Further Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking, 23 FCC Rcd 10765 (2008); The Commercial Mobile Alert System, PS Docket 07-287, 
Third Report and Order, 23 FCC Rcd 12561 (2008) revised by Erratum (Sep. 5, 2008).
29 The term “alert originator” refers to a federal, state, territorial, tribal, or local entity authorized by FEMA to use 
the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) to issue critical public alerts and warnings in emergency 
situations.  See FEMA, Alerting Authorities, https://www.fema.gov/alerting-authorities (last visited Oct. 26, 2017).  
For the purposes of this proceeding, the term “alert originator” is coextensive with the terms “emergency manager” 
and “emergency management agency” unless otherwise specified.
30 See 47 CFR § 10.10(a) (defining an “Alert Message” as “a message that is intended to provide the recipient 
information regarding an emergency, and that meets the requirements for transmission by a Participating 
Commercial Mobile Service Provider under this part”).
31 CAP is an open, interoperable, XML-based standard that can include multimedia such as streaming audio or 
video.  See OASIS CAP v1.2 (IPAWS Profile for the OASIS Common Alerting Protocol IPAWS USA).  CAP 
messages contain standardized fields that facilitate interoperability between and among devices.  See id.
32 The WEA system, as it is deployed currently, is based on standards created by the Alliance for 
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS), the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) (jointly, 
ATIS/TIA), and the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).  See CSRIC IV WEA Messaging Report at 7.
33 Target area coordinates are only transmitted to mobile devices for Alert Messages with a target area specified by a 
circle or polygon, not a code describing an entire state or county.
34 See 47 CFR 10.320(g) (requiring Participating CMS Providers to provide this information to emergency 
management agencies only insofar as those logs pertain to alerts initiated by that emergency management agency).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
6Providers currently use one-way cell broadcast technology to transmit WEA Alert Messages to their 
subscribers.35  When the Alert Message is received by a WEA-capable mobile device, it is prominently 
presented to the subscriber as long as the subscriber has not opted out of receiving Alert Messages of that 
type.36  The Commission requires WEA-capable mobile devices to preserve Alert Messages in a 
consumer-accessible format and location for at least 24 hours or until deleted by the subscriber, but does 
not specifically require WEA-capable mobile devices to log information about Alert Messages that they 
receive.37
8. As with the EAS, without sufficient security measures in place, the WEA system is 
vulnerable to interference by actors with malicious intent.  The CSRIC V reviewed WEA Security issues 
in 2016 and identified several potential security risks in the WEA network.38  Potential risks identified by 
CSRIC include, among others, the blocking of valid WEA messages to the public, changing the content of 
a valid WEA message, injecting false WEA alerts into operator equipment, and sending false alerts from 
false base stations—all of which pose a serious threat to public safety.  Following the first nationwide test 
of WEA in 2018, concerns have been raised about circumstances under which malicious actors could 
block alerts from reaching the public or send false WEA alerts to the public.  For example, researchers at 
the University of Colorado, Boulder published a paper in 2019 that described a hypothetical attack that 
could allow an adversary to send a false WEA message nationwide that could reach 90 percent of the 
public in the broadcast range of an unauthorized (“false”) base station.39  In 2021, the National 
Telecommunications Commission of the Philippines ordered an investigation into an incident in which 
consumer devices in a localized area displayed an emergency alert that included a political advertisement, 
which may have been transmitted by an unauthorized base station.40  In July 2022, researchers at New 
York University Abu Dhabi released a paper that demonstrated five attacks that could affect Commercial 
35 See CTIA, Letter from Scott Bergmann, Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, to Marlene Dortch, Secretary, 
Federal Communications Commission, PS Docket Nos. 15-91, 15-94, at 4 (Apr. 13, 2022) (CTIA Ex Parte) 
(recommending that the draft WEA FNPRM add a detailed discussion of the cell broadcast architecture of the 
current WEA system); see also CSRIC V, Working Group Two, Wireless Emergency Alerts – Recommendations to 
Improve Geo-targeting and Offer Many-to-One Capabilities, Final Report and Recommendations at 8 (2016); but 
see Letter from Rebecca Murphy Thompson, EVP and General Counsel, Competitive Carriers Association, to 
Marlene Dortch, Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, PS Docket No. 15-91, at 2 (Oct. 6, 2017) (stating 
that some carriers offer WEA using a software application, rather than cell broadcast).
36 See ATIS, Enhanced Wireless Emergency Alert (eWEA) Mobile Device Behavior (MDB) Specification (A 
Revised Version of J-STD-100) at 18-19 (2018); ATIS, Joint ATIS/TIA CMAS Mobile Device Behavior 
Specification (ATIS-TIA-J-STD-100) (2009).  Subscribers’ right to opt out of WEA Alert Message receipt extends 
to all but the Presidential Alert.  See 47 CFR § 10.280.  We note that nothing in the WARN Act or the 
Commission’s rules requires WEA to be a cell broadcast-based service.
37 See 47 CFR 10.500(h).
38 Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council, Emergency Alerting Platforms WEA Security 
Sub-Working Group Final Report – WEA Security (March 2016), 
https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric5/WG2_WEA-Sec-Sub_FinalReport_0316.docx (CSRIC WEA 
Security Report).
39 Gyuhong Lee, et al., This is Your President Speaking: Spoofing Alerts in 4G-LTE Networks (2019), 
https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3307334.3326082 (using for their research experiment a COTS eNodeB with 0.1 
Watt transmission power to send a false alert to Samsung Galaxy S8 and Motorola G6 handsets within a 70 to 120 
meter range).
40 See Zacarian Sarao, NTC orders probe into Bongbong Marcos’ emergency alert stunt (Oct. 6, 2021), 
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1498110/ntc-orders-probe-on-bongbong-marcos-emergency-alert-stunt; Aika Rey, 
Telcos deny Bongbong Marcos text ad; NTC points to portable cell sites (Oct. 6, 2021), 
https://www.rappler.com/nation/elections/telcos-ntc-statements-bongbong-marcos-text-ad-coc-filing-october-6-
2021/.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
7Mobile Alerting Systems on 5G networks.41  We acknowledge that the 3GPP SA3 (Security) working 
group has published a study on 5G security enhancements against false base stations,42 which identifies 
key issues and multiple candidate solutions.43  The report, however, acknowledges these solutions as only 
“potentially enhanc[ing] 5G system’s resistance to false base stations.”44
III. DISCUSSION
A. Promoting the Operational Readiness of EAS Equipment
9. We observe that, according to the Bureau’s last nationwide EAS test report, an 
appreciable number of EAS Participants were unable to participate in testing due to equipment failure –
despite advance notice that such test was to take place – suggesting that equipment failures are not 
addressed by EAS Participants as swiftly as reasonably possible and that more needs to be done to 
improve EAS operational readiness.45  Today, EAS Participants may continue operations for a period of 
60 days despite having defective equipment that preclude their participation in EAS.46  We seek comment 
on whether this approach is effective at ensuring the operational readiness of EAS.  How frequently does 
EAS equipment encounter defects that prevent it from receiving or retransmitting alerts?  What are the 
most common types of defects that are experienced?  What steps are necessary to repair these defects, and 
how often do they typically take to repair?  Do EAS Participants take prompt steps to repair their EAS 
equipment, or do they typically take several days or weeks before seeking repairs?  Do other EAS 
stakeholders, such as alert originators, have concerns about equipment failures preventing the 
transmission of emergency alerts to the public?  We encourage commenters to highlight any specific 
incidences in which an EAS equipment defect prevented members of the public from being alerted to an 
emergency.
10. We seek comment on how to better promote the operational readiness of EAS equipment.  
For example, instead of requiring repairs within 60 days, would it serve the public interest to require EAS 
Participants to conduct repairs promptly and with reasonable diligence?  Are all EAS Participants already 
doing so?  If so, what are the reasons why some EAS Participants are not able to conduct repairs promptly 
and diligently?  What factors should we consider when determining whether repairs are made promptly 
and with reasonable diligence?  What barriers prevent equipment from being repaired promptly and what 
steps can we take to remove those barriers?
11. Would it improve EAS operational readiness and public safety in general to increase the 
situational awareness of the Commission, alert originators, and others about the occurrence of equipment 
41 Evangelos Bitsikas and Christina Pöpper, You have been warned:  Abusing 5G’s Warning and Emergency 
Systems (2022), https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.02506.pdf.
42 See 3GPP TR 33.809 v0.18.0 (2022-2), Study on 5G Security Enhancement against False Base Stations (FBS) 
(release 18).
43 We note that this study does not require the implementation of any solutions, nor provide specifications for how 
solutions should be implemented.
44 Id. at 14.
45 FCC, Report: August 11, 2021 Nationwide EAS Test at 14, 16 and 19 (2021), 
https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-378861A1.pdf (describing that, out of 19,174 test participants in an 
August 11, 2021 nationwide test of EAS conducted by FEMA in coordination with the Commission, 389 test 
participants reported equipment performance issues on receipt and 565 on retransmission, with these participants 
generally reporting that equipment was out for repair, failed during the test, was missing, or malfunctioned).
46 Under Section 11.35(b) of the Commission’s rules, an EAS Participant may continue its operations for 60 days 
without seeking further FCC authority if it is unable to transmit EAS messages because of a defective EAS Encoder, 
EAS Decoder, or Intermediary Device used as part of the EAS, pending the Participant’s repair or replacement of 
the device.  See 47 CFR § 11.35(b).  The EAS Participant must record the occurrence of the defect in the 
broadcast station log, cable system records, and records of other EAS Participants showing the date and time the 
equipment was removed and restored to service.  Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
8defects that might prevent alerts from reaching the public?  For example, would such an approach allow 
us to better enforce our operational readiness rules and identify persistent technical problems, and make 
contingency plans for alert delivery?  If so, should we adopt an EAS equipment defect notification 
requirement?  For example, should we require EAS Participants to report EAS equipment defects and 
submit a follow-up notification when the equipment is repaired?  Within what timeframe should they 
perform that notification to ensure that stakeholders are aware of possible impacts on EAS (e.g. 24 
hours)?  What content should the notification contain?  For example, should notifications include the 
same information that is already included in requests for additional repair time that are required sent to 
the Regional Director of the FCC field office for the area that the EAS Participant serves?47   We seek 
comment on how, if at all, the Commission should share information to promote situational awareness 
among relevant stakeholders, such as alert originators State Emergency Communications Committees.  
We also seek comment on whether to treat this information as confidential and, if so, how to protect it.  
Are there other steps that we should take to better ensure that EAS is ready and available when it is 
needed?
12. We seek comment on any measures that the Commission could take to reduce burdens on 
EAS Participants if it were to take further steps to promote the operational readiness of EAS equipment.  
Should we remove the requirement under Section 11.35(b) that EAS Participants make entries in their 
own broadcast station log and cable system records showing the date and time the equipment was 
removed and restored to service?  Would the elimination of the “60 day” rule in favor of a prompt repair 
rule reduce certain burdens on EAS Participants?  We seek comments on the costs of any approaches to 
improving EAS operational readiness that commenters propose that we consider.  In doing so, 
commenters should offer specific cost estimates where possible.  For example, we seek comment on 
whether it would be reasonable to estimate that EAS Participants would transmit a maximum of 2,000 
EAS equipment defect notifications annually under the approach discussed above, as 565 EAS 
Participants reported their equipment was defective during the 2021 Nationwide EAS Test?48  Would it be 
reasonable to estimate that 2,000 annual notifications would require one hour of labor each from a 
General and Operations Manager who is compensated at $82 per hour, resulting in an overall cost of 
$164,000?49  We seek similarly detailed analysis on potential alternatives to improve EAS operational 
readiness.
B. Improving Awareness of Unauthorized Access to EAS Equipment 
13. Section 11.45(b) of the Commission’s rules requires that an EAS Participant notify the 
Commission by e-mail within 24 hours of its discovery that it has transmitted or otherwise sent a false 
alert to the public, including details concerning the event.50  We believe that it would be in the public 
interest to strengthen this rule in view of the increasing threats that cyber attacks pose to EAS networks 
and equipment.  Accordingly, we propose to revise this rule to further require that an EAS Participant 
report any incident of unauthorized access of its EAS equipment (i.e., regardless of whether that 
47 Cf. 47 CFR § 11.35(c) (“This request must explain what steps have been taken to repair or replace the defective 
equipment, the alternative procedures being used while the defective equipment is out of service, and when the 
defective equipment will be repaired or replaced.”).
48 FCC, Report: August 11, 2021 Nationwide EAS Test at 16, 19 (2021), 
https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-378861A1.pdf.
49 The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the most recent hourly wage for General and Operations Managers is 
$55, which increases to $82 when increased by 50% to also include benefits.  See 
https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes111021.htm (accessed on 8/17/22).  BLS data shows that the hourly wage must 
be increased by approximately 50% to include employee benefits.  See Employer Costs for Employee Compensation 
- March 2022 at https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/ecec.pdf.
50 47 CFR § 11.45(b).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
9compromise has resulted in the transmission of a false alert),51 to the Commission via NORS within 72 
hours of when it knew or should have known that an incident has occurred and provide details concerning 
the incident.52  We seek comment on this proposal.
14. We observe that protecting EAS equipment alone is unlikely to be sufficient to protect 
the EAS from a cyber attack.  Even without directly accessing an EAS Participant’s EAS equipment, a 
bad actor could send a false alert or prevent a legitimate alert with lifesaving information from reaching 
the public by gaining unauthorized access to EAS Participants’ communications systems and services.  
For this reason, we also propose to require that an EAS Participant report any incident of unauthorized 
access to any aspects of an EAS Participant’s communications systems and services that potentially could 
affect their provision of EAS.  This would include infrastructure that serves to prevent unauthorized 
access to EAS equipment, including firewalls and Virtual Private Networks.  We seek comment on this 
proposal and on any suitable alternatives.
15. We believe the proposed rule is justified in light of the instances of false EAS alerts in 
recent years, caused by compromised EAS equipment being used to transmit a false message.53  As 
recounted above, we are aware of several situations in the past decade in which bad actors were either 
capable of obtaining, or actually obtained unauthorized access to EAS equipment.54  We seek comment on 
these views.  Are there any other past or present security incidents involving EAS about which the 
Commission should be aware?  Does unauthorized access to EAS equipment provide bad actors with the 
ability to disrupt EAS Participants’ regularly scheduled programming, which has the potential to inflict 
financial harm in relation to their advertisers and reputational harm with their audiences?  Are there any 
other kinds of harms resulting from unauthorized access to EAS equipment that the Commission should 
consider?
16. We believe significant public safety benefits would accrue if EAS Participants were 
required to provide the Commission with notification that their EAS equipment, communications 
systems, or services have been accessed without authorization, even in the absence of a subsequent 
transmission of a false alert.  This view is based on our observation that, after a system is compromised, 
many attackers will position themselves to attack connected systems in several different ways.   For 
example, we have observed that it is characteristic of some cyber attacks that an attacker will start by 
compromising one device and then, prior to launching a specific attack, spend time and effort to identify 
and compromise other devices in the network, potentially using the initially comprised device as an 
access point to other devices.55  The Commission could use the proposed notifications to work with 
providers and other government agencies to resolve an equipment compromise before the compromise is 
actually exploited to cause false EAS transmissions in at least some instances.  We further believe that the 
Commission could leverage information on the frequency and nature of equipment compromise to better 
understand the prevalence and trends associated such attacks across the nation.  The Commission and its 
government partners would thus be better apprised of the risks posed to EAS and in a position to use this 
information to inform further measures that might be necessary to secure EAS.
51 See 47 CFR § 11.32 (EAS Encoder); 47 CFR § 11.33 (EAS Decoder).
52 Cf. 6 U.S.C. § 681b(a)(1)(A) (requiring covered entity experiencing covered cyber incident to report the incident 
to CISA not later than 72 hours after the covered entity reasonably believes that the incident has occurred, as 
enacted in the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022).
53 See, e.g., 2016 Notice at 638, para. 98.
54 Supra at para. 4.
55 See Mandiant, M-Trends 2022 at 12 (2022), available at https://www.mandiant.com/m-trends (showing the 
median time attackers spent in compromised networks prior to detection was 17 days for the Americas); Oracle, 
Anatomy of a Cyber Attack at 5-6, (2017), https://www.oracle.com/us/technologies/linux/anatomy-of-cyber-attacks-
wp-4124673.pdf (showing activities hackers take during the penetration and exfiltration stages of an attack to 
control additional network assets).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
1017. We seek comment on these views, including detailed information as to the associated 
costs and benefits of the proposed approach.  For example, what would be a reasonable estimate of the 
financial harm that such a cyber attack would inflict upon an EAS Participant, and how should such 
estimates be calculated?  We believe the cost of reporting an unauthorized access incident would tend to 
be similar to the cost of reporting a false alert, which the Commission has estimated to have a total cost of 
$11,600 per year across all EAS Participants.56  We seek comment on that estimate.  Are EAS Participants 
already conducting investigations and gathering information about suspected incidents of unauthorized 
access to EAS equipment, communications systems, and services?  Are there less costly alternatives to an 
unauthorized access reporting requirement that would achieve similar or greater benefits?  We believe 
that the marginal costs of an unauthorized access reporting requirement are likely to be low, as the 
requirement parallels the requirements of an upcoming CISA rulemaking.  Specifically, CISA is required 
by the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022 (CIRCIA) to adopt rules requiring 
critical infrastructure sector entities to report cyber incidents,57 but allows the requirement to be satisfied 
by reporting substantially similar information to another federal agency in a similar timeframe.58  We seek 
comment on that belief.
18. We propose to define “unauthorized access” to EAS equipment, communications 
systems, and services for the purposes of today’s proposal to refer to any incident involving either remote 
or local access to EAS equipment, communications systems, or services by an individual or other entity 
that either does not have permission to access the equipment or exceeds their authorized access.  We seek 
comment on this definition.  For example, does this proposed definition mirror the methods that have 
been, and are likely to be, used by cyber-attackers to infiltrate EAS?  We seek comment on whether it is 
appropriate to require that EAS Participants provide notification to the Commission within 72 hours of 
when they knew or should have known that an incident has occurred.  Is this time frame appropriate or 
would it, for example, put undue pressure on EAS Participants at a critical time when they may be 
attempting to fully diagnose and resolve the compromise to their systems?  On the other hand, is this time 
frame too slow to provide the Commission and government partners with timely notice of an incident?  
For example, consistent with the NORS reporting deadlines for interconnected VoIP outages,59 should the 
Commission be notified within 24 hours of a reasonable belief that an incident has occurred?  In the 
alternative, should we require EAS Participants to provide notification to the Commission within 72 hours 
of “its reasonable belief that an incident has occurred,” consistent with the approach to cyber incident 
reporting outlined by CIRCIA?60  Or, would this approach create disincentives for a provider to monitor 
the security of its own network?  Would any alternative approach be more effective?  Similar to what is 
contemplated by CIRCIA,61 should EAS Participants be required to submit updates to the Commission if 
substantial new or different information becomes available, until the date that the Commission is notified 
that the incident has concluded and been fully mitigated and resolved?  Is the overall approach we 
propose today consistent with the incident reporting requirements of other federal and state government 
agencies, and if not, how should our proposal be harmonized to be more consistent with those 
requirements?
19. We seek comment on the kinds of information that should be included in reports of 
unauthorized access.  We propose that reports include, to the extent it is applicable and available at the 
time of reporting, the date range of the incident, a description of the unauthorized access, the impact to 
56 2018 Order at 7102, para. 38 (estimating the cost of reporting false alerts to be $11,600 per year based on an 
average of 290 EAS participants filing two false alerts per year).
57 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(c). 
58 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(a)(5)(B).
59 47 CFR § 4.9(g)(1)(i).
60 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(a)(1)(A).
61 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(a)(3).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
11the EAS Participant’s EAS operational readiness, a description of the vulnerabilities exploited and the 
techniques used to access the device, identifying information for each actor responsible for the incident, 
and contact information for the EAS Participant.  We believe this information is necessary to understand 
the unauthorized access incident, resolve it before the compromise is actually exploited to send a false 
alert, and harmonize our requirements with those of other federal agencies.62  We seek comment on the 
proposed content of these reports and whether it should be modified.  We propose that the contents of 
these reports be treated as presumptively confidential and only shared on a confidential basis with other 
Federal agencies and state government agencies that agree to protect them to the same extent and in the 
same manner as the Commission would and, to the extent that the policies or regulations of those agencies 
are stricter, to the same extent and in the same manner as they would if they had collected the information 
themselves.63  We also propose to allow disclosure by the Commission, or by parties with whom the 
Commission has shared the notifications, of anonymized information about breaches that might be useful 
for industry, security researchers, policymakers, and the general public.64  We seek comment on this 
approach to cyber incident information sharing.
20. We seek comment on how these reports should be submitted to the Commission.  Should 
they be submitted to the FCC Operation Center by e-mail, in similar fashion to the false alert reports that 
EAS Participants are already required to file with the Commission?  Should these reports be submitted in 
NORS to better capture the required contents in clearly defined fields and more easily facilitate sharing 
with federal partners?  Or should we develop a new electronic database to collect the content of the 
reports?  Are there other approaches we should consider?  What are the costs and benefits associated with 
each approach?
21. We seek comment on whether Participating CMS Providers should also be required to 
report incidents of unauthorized access to their WEA systems, or services.  Similar to EAS, we believe 
that such a requirement would allow the Commission and its government partners to better identify and 
evaluate risks posed to EAS and inform further measures that might be necessary to secure WEA.  Should 
reports be required in the same timeframe and with the same content as proposed for EAS?  Are there any 
differences between EAS and WEA that would warrant differing unauthorized access reporting 
requirements for WEA?  If so, what are those differences and how should the requirements be modified to 
reflect them?
C. Protecting the Nation’s Alerting Systems through the Development, 
Implementation, and Certification of a Cybersecurity Risk Management Plan
1. EAS Security
22. As discussed above, the EAS has faced cybersecurity risks for more than a decade, with 
PSHSB regularly advising EAS Participants to follow cybersecurity best practices and take other steps to 
improve their cybersecurity posture.  Despite these admonitions, however, we have not observed 
meaningful security improvements.  For example, PSHSB has frequently advised EAS Participants to 
update their EAS software to ensure that they have installed the most recent security patches, including 
one such round of outreach in 2020 after the discovery that certain EAS equipment was potentially 
vulnerable to IP-based attacks.65  However, in filings related to the Nationwide EAS Test in August 2021, 
62 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(c)(4) (outlining specific contents of cyber incident reports required by CIRCIA rulemaking).  
63 See 44 U.S.C. § 3510 (directing federal agencies to share information with other federal agencies subject to 
confidentiality protections).
64 The Commission would make every effort to ensure that the security issue had been resolved before disclosing 
information about the breach that could promote the perpetration of similar attacks.  Further, consistent with the 
Commission’s rules, we could disclose the identity of breached EAS Participants when it would serve the public 
interest.  This disclosure would be limited to the identity of the EAS Participant and would not include the 
disclosure of any reports related to the unauthorized access.
65 See E-mail from Lisa M. Fowlkes, Chief, PSHSB, FCC to EAS Participants (April 24, 2020 2:03 am EDT).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
12the Bureau observed that more than 5,000 EAS Participants were using outdated software or using 
equipment that no longer supported regular software updates.  In light of these failures, we believe the 
Commission should take action to ensure the security of EAS.
23. We propose to require EAS Participants to submit an annual certification attesting that 
they have created, updated, and implemented a cybersecurity risk management plan.66  The cybersecurity 
risk management plan would describe how the EAS Participant employs their organizational resources 
and processes to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the EAS.  The plan must discuss 
how the EAS Participant identifies the cyber risks that they face,67 the controls they use to mitigate those 
risks, and how they ensure that these controls are applied effectively to their operations.68  We believe that 
this certification requirement would improve the overall security of EAS by ensuring that EAS 
Participants are regularly taking steps to address security threats as part of their organization’s day-to-day 
strategic and operational planning.  We also believe the creation and implementation of cybersecurity risk 
management plans would help to ensure EAS operational readiness and eliminate false alerts, which 
divert public safety and other government resources from other important activities, impose costs on EAS 
Participants that have to deal with many of the consequences and, ultimately, desensitize the public to 
legitimate alerts.  We seek comment on this proposal.  Do stakeholders agree this proposal would improve 
the security of the EAS?  Are there other benefits that may accrue from the creation and implementation 
of cybersecurity risk management plans by EAS Participants?  Is an annual certification the right 
frequency with which to file certifications, or are there circumstances where more (or less) frequent 
filings might be necessary?
24. We propose to afford each EAS Participant flexibility to structure its plan in a manner 
that is tailored to its organization, provided that the plan demonstrate that the EAS Participant is taking 
affirmative steps to analyze security risks and improve its security posture.  While we believe there are 
66 We note that other agencies are likewise either requiring or proposing to require their regulated entities to take 
cybersecurity measures to protect their systems.  For example, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(CFTC) requires registrants to establish and maintain information security controls as part of their mandatory system 
safeguards and to implement five types of security testing through ongoing risk assessments and board oversight: (1) 
vulnerability testing; (2) penetration testing; (3) controls testing; (4) security incident response plan testing; and (5) 
enterprise technology risk assessment.  See generally, CFTC, Fact Sheet - Final Rules on System Safeguards Testing 
Requirements (Sept. 8, 2016), 
http://www.cftc.gov/idc/groups/public/@newsroom/documents/file/syssafeguard_factsheet090816.pdf.  The 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has proposed periodic cybersecurity reporting requirements that 
include disclosing a registrant’s policies and procedures to identify and manage cybersecurity risks.  See SEC, 
Cybersecurity Risk Management, Strategy, Governance, and Incident Disclosure (Mar. 9, 2022), 
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2022/33-11038.pdf.
67 Sources of threat intelligence that may be helpful to EAS Participants’ identification of threats include the 
Communications Information Sharing and Analysis Center (ISAC), CISA Known Exploited Vulnerabilities, and 
PSHSB Public Notices.  See, e.g., ISAO Standards Organization, Communications ISAC, 
https://www.isao.org/information-sharing-group/sector/communications-isac/ (last visited Aug. 14, 2022; CISA, 
Reducing the Significant Risk of Known Exploited Vulnerabilities, https://www.cisa.gov/known-exploited-
vulnerabilities (last visited Aug. 14, 2022); Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau Urges Emergency Alert 
System (EAS) Participants to Take Immediate Steps to Secure EAS Equipment, PS Docket No. 15-94, Public 
Notice, DA 22-828 (PSHSB Aug. 5, 2022).
68 Similarly, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) requires entities to conduct a risk analysis to 
determine the threats or hazards to the security of  electronically stored, protected health information, and requires 
them to implement security policies and procedures.  See 45 CFR § 164.308.  The Department of Defense (DoD) 
requires all entities within the defense supply chain to have a multi-level process to verify that DoD cybersecurity 
requirements have been implemented.  See 48 CFR §§ 252.204-7012, 252.204-7021.  The Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) has proposed periodic cybersecurity reporting requirements that include disclosing a registrant’s 
policies and procedures to identify and manage cybersecurity risks.  See, SEC, Cybersecurity Risk Management, 
Strategy, Governance, and Incident Disclosure (Mar. 9, 2022), https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2022/33-
11038.pdf.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
13many ways for EAS Participants to satisfy this requirement, we propose that EAS Participants can 
successfully demonstrate that they have satisfied this requirement by structuring their plans to follow an 
established risk management framework, such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) Risk Management Framework69 or the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.70  We believe this flexible 
approach would allow EAS Participants to develop a plan that is appropriate for their organization’s size 
and available resources, while still ensuring that the plan results in ongoing and material improvements in 
EAS security.71  We also anticipate that this requirement would reduce the costs imposed on smaller EAS 
Participants, which may have different cybersecurity needs than larger EAS Participants.  We seek 
comment on this proposal.  Alternatively, should we require EAS Participants to structure their plans to 
follow the NIST Risk Management Framework or the NIST Cybersecurity Framework?  If so, should we 
require EAS Participants to follow the current version of each framework (i.e., Risk Management 
Framework for Information Systems and Organizations, NIST Special Publication 800-37, Revision 2; 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework V1.1)?72  If we take this approach, we anticipate that NIST may one day 
release updated versions of these frameworks, and we would then expect to seek notice and comment on 
whether we should require EAS Participants to follow the updated versions.  We seek comment on this 
approach.
25. We propose that each cybersecurity risk management framework include security 
controls sufficient to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) of the EAS.73  We expect 
that reasonable security measures will include measures that are commonly the subject of best practices.  
69 See NIST Computer Security Resource Center, About the NIST Risk Management Framework (July 14, 2022), 
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/about-rmf ( providing a system development process that prepares an 
organization to manage security and privacy risks by categorizing the system and information processed, stored and 
transmitted by the system, selecting and implementing controls to protect the system, and continuously assessing the 
system to determine if the controls are providing the desired results). 
70 See NIST Computer Security Resource Center, Getting Started with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework: A Quick 
Start Guide (April 19, 2022), https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cybersecurity-framework/nist-cybersecurity-framework-
a-quick-start-guide ( providing a system development process that prepares an organization to identify, protect 
against, detect, respond to, and recover from cyber threats); see also CSRIC IV, Cybersecurity Risk Management 
and Best Practices, Final Report (2015), 
https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG4_Final_Report_031815.pdf (offering guidance to the 
communications sector on implementing the NIST Cybersecurity Framework).
71 Similarly, SEC and HHS have taken a flexible approach to security measures that their respective regulatees must 
implement.  See, SEC, Cybersecurity and Resiliency Observations (Jan. 27, 2020), 
https://www.sec.gov/files/OCIE%20Cybersecurity%20and%20Resiliency%20Observations.pdf; Summary of the 
HIPAA Security Rule, https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/security/laws-regulations/index.html (last visited 
Aug. 16, 2022).
72 NIST, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations, NIST Special Publication 800-
37, Revision 2 (2018), https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-37r2.pdf; NIST, 
Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, Version 1.1 (2018), 
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf. 
73 “Confidentiality” in this context refers to assurance that information is not disclosed to unauthorized persons, 
processes, or devices.  See ATIS, ATIS Telecom Glossary: Confidentiality, Assurance that information is not 
disclosed to unauthorized persons, processes, or devices https://glossary.atis.org/glossary/confidentiality (last visited 
Aug 9, 2022).  “Integrity” refers to preventing unauthorized creation, amendment or deletion of information.  See 
ATIS, ATIS Telecom Glossary: Integrity, https://glossary.atis.org/glossary/integrity (last visited Aug 9, 2022).  
Finally, “availability” refers to whether a network provides, timely, reliable access to data and information services 
for authorized users.  See ATIS, ATIS Telecom Glossary: Availability, https://glossary.atis.org/glossary/availability  
(last visited Aug 9, 2022).  Combined, these principles are generally referred to by cybersecurity experts as the “CIA 
triad.”  See NIST Special Publication 1800-25A, Data Integrity: Identifying and Protecting Assets Against 
Ransomware and Other Destructive Events (Dec. 2020), Executive Summary, 
https://www.nccoe.nist.gov/publication/1800-25/VolA/index.html.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
14While we believe there are potentially many ways for EAS Participants to satisfy this aspect of the 
requirement, we propose that EAS Participants will have satisfied it if they demonstrate they have 
successfully implemented an established set of cybersecurity best practices, such as applicable CIS 
Critical Security Controls74 or the CISA Cybersecurity Baseline.75  To ensure that every EAS Participant 
implements a baseline of security controls, however, we propose to require that each plan include security 
measures that address changing default passwords prior to operation,76 installing security updates in a 
timely manner,77 securing equipment behind properly configured firewalls or using other segmentation 
practices,78 requiring multifactor authentication where applicable,79 addressing the replacement of end-of-
life equipment, and wiping, clearing, or encrypting user information before disposing of old devices.80  
We expect that compliant cybersecurity risk management plans will not be limited to only these specific 
measures, as plans will vary based on individual providers’ needs and circumstances and will need regular 
updates to keep up with an evolving threat environment.  We seek comment on these proposed rules.  Are 
there other specific security measures that we should require EAS Participants to implement?  For 
example, should we require EAS Participants to conduct network security audits or vulnerability 
assessments to identify potential security vulnerabilities?  If so, how often should they be conducted?  
Should we require EAS Participants to report to the Commission when their network audits, network 
vulnerability assessments, or penetration testing reports reveal critical vulnerabilities?  If so, how should 
we define a “critical vulnerability” for this purpose?  Should we require EAS Participants to implement 
Incident Response Plans that describe how the procedures that EAS Participants would follow when 
respond to an ongoing cybersecurity incident?  Should we require EAS Participants to conduct 
cybersecurity training for their employees or contractors and if so, what should the contents of that 
training be?  What kinds of security measures have EAS Participants already implemented to protect the 
EAS, and how effective are they at mitigating cybersecurity risks?  Should we require EAS Participants to 
keep records that demonstrate how they have implemented each of the baseline security controls?  If so, 
what specific types of information should the records include and for how long should they be kept?  
Have EAS Participants identified unsuccessful attempts to access their systems, and if so, what specific 
security measures best thwarted those attempts?
26. Does this approach strike the appropriate balance between improving EAS security, 
complementing EAS Participants’ existing cybersecurity activities, and reducing burdens on small EAS 
Participants?  If not, how should this requirement be modified to achieve that balance?  We seek comment 
74 See Center for Internet Security, Critical Security Controls version 8, https://www.cisecurity.org/controls (last 
visited Aug 9, 2022) (CIS Critical Security Controls or CIS) (providing security controls grouped by priority and 
feasibility for different sizes and resources of businesses in Implementation Groups).
75 Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, Cross-Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals and Objectives, 
https://www.cisa.gov/cpgs (last visited Aug. 5, 2020); Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, Cross-
Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals (CPGs) Common Baseline: Controls List (Draft), 
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Common_Baseline_v2_Controls_List_508c.pdf (last visited 
Aug. 5, 2020)(CISA Baseline).  See also White House, National Security Memorandum on Improving Cybersecurity 
for Critical Infrastructure Control Systems (July 28, 2021), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-
releases/2021/07/28/national-security-memorandum-on-improving-cybersecurity-for-critical-infrastructure-control-
systems/ (directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to “develop and issue and issue cybersecurity performance 
goals for critical infrastructure to further a common understanding of the baseline security practices that critical 
infrastructure owners and operators should follow to protect national and economic security, as well as public health 
and safety”).
76 See, e.g., CISA Baseline 1.2 and CIS 5.2.
77 See, e.g., CISA Baseline 6.3 and CIS 2.2.
78 See, e.g., CISA Baseline 5.3, 5.4 and CIS 4.2, 4.4, 4.5.
79 See, e.g., CISA Baseline 1.4 and CIS 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5.
80 See, e.g., CISA Baseline and CIS 2.3.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
15on whether this approach grants too much flexibility and will not result in improvements to EAS security.  
We also seek comment on alternative approaches that would be effective at improving EAS security.  For 
example, should we require EAS Participants to address a specified list of cybersecurity subject matters in 
their risk management plans?  Instead of requiring the use of a risk management plan, should we require 
EAS Participants to take specific steps to secure their EAS equipment?  If so, could such a requirement be 
drafted in a way to encourage EAS Participants to continually examine and improve their cybersecurity 
posture, rather than merely check items off a list?  Is our proposed certification requirement too 
burdensome on small EAS Participants?  If so, what would be a more cost-effective way to promote EAS 
security for small EAS Participants?
27. We observe that protecting EAS equipment alone is unlikely to be sufficient to protect 
the EAS from a cyber attack.  In addition to the risk of a bad actor sending a false alert, a bad actor could 
attack other elements of an EAS Participant’s systems or service as a way to prevent a legitimate alert 
with lifesaving information from reaching the public.  For this reason, we propose to require that the 
cybersecurity risk management plan address not only the security of EAS equipment, but also the security 
of all aspects of an EAS Participant’s communications systems and services that potentially could affect 
their provision of EAS.  We seek comment on this requirement.  Are there alternative requirements that 
we should consider to ensure that bad actors cannot prevent the transmission of legitimate alerts (or 
engage in the transmission of false ones)?
28. We seek comment on whether there are industry groups, cybersecurity organizations, or 
other organizations that may be positioned to help EAS Participants create, implement, and maintain their 
cybersecurity risk management plan.  What kinds of resources do these organizations offer, and how can 
EAS Participants make use of them?  For example, are there organizations that offer, or that would be 
able to begin offering, authoritative sources of cybersecurity information and expertise?  Are there 
organizations that can support EAS Participants by offering cybersecurity training, risk management plan 
templates, or otherwise promote the cybersecurity?  If so, to what extent can these organizations help 
reduce the burdens related to the proposed certification requirement and make EAS more secure?
29. We propose that EAS Participants certify to creating, annually updating, and 
implementing a cybersecurity risk management plan by checking a box as part of its annual filing of EAS 
Test Reporting System Form One.81  We seek comment on whether this is the most efficient way to 
implement a certification requirement for EAS Participants.  If not, how should the certification be 
implemented?  While the Commission does not intend to review each individual plan for sufficiency, we 
propose that the cybersecurity risk management plan be made available to the Commission upon request 
so that the Commission may review a specific plan as needed or proactively review a sample of EAS 
Participants’ plans to ensure that they are sufficient to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability 
of the EAS.  In such circumstances, cybersecurity risk management plans would be treated as 
presumptively confidential.  We propose to delegate to the Bureau the authority to request review of such 
cybersecurity risk management plans and to evaluate them for sufficiency. We seek comment on this 
approach to evaluating plans.  For how long we should require EAS Participants to retain prior versions 
of their cybersecurity risk management plans to enable the Bureau’s review?
30. We propose that the filing of, and subsequent compliance with, a cybersecurity risk 
management plan would not serve as a safe harbor or excuse or any other diminishment of responsibility 
for negligent security practices.  We believe that allowing the filing of and compliance with a plan to have 
such an effect could create a perverse incentive.  EAS Participants must remain constantly vigilant in 
preventing intrusions and can only satisfy that responsibility by acting reasonably in all circumstances.  
Any negligence in protecting the confidentially, integrity, and availability of EAS that results in 
transmission of false alerts or non-transmission of valid EAS messages would establish a violation of that 
duty, regardless of the content of the plan.  Furthermore, we propose that an EAS Participant’s failure to 
sufficiently develop or implement their plan, would be treated as a violation of the proposed rules.  We 
81 See 47 CFR § 11.61(a)(3)(iv)(A).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
16seek comment on the criteria or indicia that we should consider when determining whether a plan is 
insufficient to mitigate cyber risk.  We also seek comment on any measures that the Commission should 
take to verify whether EAS Participants have implemented of their plans.
31. We believe that the benefits of this proposal outweigh the costs.  While we believe that it 
is impossible to quantify the precise dollar value of improvements to the public’s safety, life, and health, 
as a general matter,82 we nonetheless believe that very substantial public safety benefits will result from 
the rules we propose today:  EAS will be better able to ensure that real alerts with lifesaving information 
are successfully delivered to the public and false alerts are prevented in order to preserve public trust and 
better ensure that the public takes appropriate action during real emergencies.  As a consequence, we 
anticipate that the rule changes we adopt today will yield substantial life-saving benefits. Independent of 
that analysis, the Commission has previously found that “a foreign adversary’s access to American 
communications networks could result in hostile actions to disrupt and surveil our communications 
networks, impacting our nation’s economy generally and online commerce specifically, and result in the 
breach of confidential data.”83  Consistent with the Commission’s past analysis, our national gross 
domestic product was nearly $23 trillion last year, adjusting for inflation.84  Accordingly, if creating and 
implementing a cybersecurity risk management plan prevents even a 0.005% disruption to our economy, 
we believe our proposed requirement would generate $1.15 billion in benefits.  Likewise, the digital 
economy accounted for $3.31 trillion of our economy in 2020,85 and so we believe preventing a disruption 
of even 0.05% would produce benefits of $1.66 billion.  As a check on our analysis, consider the impact 
of existing malicious cyber activity on the U.S. economy:  $57 billion to $109 billion in 2016.86  Given 
the incentives and documented actions of hostile nation-state actors, reducing this activity (or preventing 
an expansion of such damage) by even 1% would produce benefits of $0.57 billion to $1.09 billion.  
Given this analysis, we believe the benefits of our rule to the American economy, commerce, and 
consumers are likely to significantly and substantially outweigh the costs of the proposed certification 
requirement.  We seek comment on this analysis.  Is there a more appropriate way to quantify these 
benefits?  Are there any additional ways in which the proposed rules would benefit the public that the 
Commission should consider?
32. We estimate that the overall cost of our proposed cybersecurity risk management plan 
requirement will be approximately $21 million.  We believe that EAS Participants will, on average, 
require 10 hours annually to initially draft a plan and then update the plan and submit their certification 
annually.  When developing this average we anticipate that many large EAS Participants already have 
cybersecurity risk management plans and will incur only de minimis costs to comply with this 
requirement.  We also anticipate that many small EAS Participants will require less than 10 hours to 
develop or update a plan that is appropriate to the size of their organization.  Based on this estimate, we 
believe that the overall cost for 25,644 EAS Participants to comply with the proposed certification 
82 Resilient Networks, Report and Order, PS Docket 21-346, FCC 22-50, para. 46 (2022) (Resilient Networks Order) 
(“it would be impossible to quantify the precise financial value of these health and safety benefits”).
83 Protecting Against National Security Threats to the Communications Supply Chain Through FCC Programs; 
Huawei Designation; ZTE Designation, WC Docket No. 18-89; PS Docket Nos. 19-351 and 19-352, Report and 
Order, Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, and Order, 34 FCC Rcd 11423, 11465, para. 109 (2019).
84 See Press Release, Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, Gross Domestic Product (Third 
Estimate), Corporate Profits (Revised Estimate), and GDP by Industry, First Quarter 2022 (June 29, 2022), 
https://www.bea.gov/sites/default/files/2022-06/gdp1q22_3rd.pdf.
85 See Tina Highfill & Christopher Surfield, Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, New and 
Revised Statistics of the U.S. Digital Economy, 2005-2020 (May 2022), https://www.bea.gov/system/files/2022-
05/New%20and%20Revised%20Statistics%20of%20the%20U.S.%20Digital%20Economy%202005-2020.pdf.
86 See The Council of Economic Advisers, The Cost of Malicious Cyber Activity to the U.S. Economy at 36 (Feb. 
2018),  https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/The-Cost-of-Malicious-Cyber-Activity-
to-the-U.S.-Economy.pdf.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
17requirement with 10 hours of labor from a General and Operations Manager who is compensated at $82 
per hour will be $21,028,080.87  We seek comment on our analysis.
2.WEA Security
33. We propose to require Participating CMS Providers to certify that they are creating, 
annually updating, and implementing a cybersecurity risk management plan.  As discussed above, WEA 
also faces security risks related to the transmission of false alerts and compromise of a Participating CMS 
Providers’ systems could disrupt the transmission of a legitimate WEA message.  Are there additional 
cybersecurity risks to WEA about which we should be aware?  To what extent do Participating CMS 
Providers already have cybersecurity risk management plans?  We believe that the approach we propose 
above in the context of EAS – wherein we would afford flexibility for providers to assess what content 
should be in their cybersecurity risk management plans while proposing that it demonstrate how the 
provider identifies the cyber risks that they face, the controls they use to mitigate those risks, and how 
they ensure that these controls are applied effectively to their operations – lends itself to WEA as well.  
We seek comment on this tentative conclusion.  Are there any fundamental differences in the transmission 
of WEA alerts or the threats that WEA faces that would require a different approach to ensuring WEA’s 
security?  We seek comment on the least burdensome means by which Participating CMS Providers could 
submit their certification to the Commission, including via the Commission’s Electronic Comment Filing 
System, a designated Commission e-mail address, or a WEA-specific database designed for this purpose.
34. As with the EAS, we propose that a cybersecurity risk management plan should include 
security controls sufficient to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of WEA.88  We propose 
sufficient security measures could be demonstrated by implementing controls like the CISA 
Cybersecurity Baseline or appropriate CIS Implementation Group.89  As with EAS Participants as 
described above we propose to require that each plan include a baseline of security measures that address 
changing default passwords prior to operation, installing security updates in a timely manner, securing 
equipment behind properly configured firewalls or using other segmentation practices, requiring 
multifactor authentication where applicable, addressing the replacement of end-of-life equipment, and 
wiping, clearing, or encrypting user information before disposing of old devices.   We expect that 
compliant cybersecurity risk management plans will not be limited to only these specific measures, as 
plans will need regular updates to keep up with an evolving threat environment.  We seek comment on 
these proposed rules.  Are there specific security measures that we should require Participating CMS 
Providers to implement?  For example, as above, we seek comment on whether we should require 
Participating CMS Providers to conduct network security audits or vulnerability assessments to identify 
potential security vulnerabilities, implement Incident Response Plans that describe the procedures that 
Participating CMS Providers would follow when responding to an ongoing cybersecurity incident, or 
require Participating CMS Providers to conduct cybersecurity training for their employees or contractors.
35. We believe that the benefits of this proposal for WEA outweighs the costs.  As discussed 
above for EAS, we believe that the rules we propose today would better ensure that real WEA alerts with 
lifesaving information are successfully delivered to the public and false alerts are prevented in order to 
preserve public trust and better ensure that the public takes appropriate action during real emergencies.  
We estimate that the overall cost of our proposed cybersecurity risk management plan requirement will be 
approximately $62,320.  We anticipate that many large Participating CMS Providers already have 
cybersecurity risk management plans and will incur only de minimis costs to comply with this 
requirement.  We also anticipate that many small Participating CMS Providers will require less than 10 
87 FCC, Report: August 11, 2021 Nationwide EAS Test at 6 (PSHSB 2021), 
https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-378861A1.pdf.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the most 
recent hourly wage for General and Operations Managers is $55, which rises to $82 when increased by 50% to also 
include benefits. See supra n. 49.
88 See supra n. 73.
89 See supra n. 74, 75.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
18hours to develop or update a plan that is appropriate to the size of their organization.  Based on this 
estimate, we believe that the overall cost for 76 Participating CMS Providers to comply with the proposed 
certification requirement with 10 hours of labor from a General and Operations Manager who is 
compensated at $82 per hour will be $62,320.90  We seek comment on this analysis. To what extent do 
Participating CMS Providers already implement a cybersecurity risk management framework?  Are there 
alternatives that would be as effective but less burdensome, particularly to smaller providers?  As with 
EAS above, we seek comment on whether there are industry groups, cybersecurity organizations, or other 
organizations that may be positioned to help Participating CMS providers create, implement, and 
maintain their cybersecurity risk management plans.  What kinds of resources do these organizations 
offer, and how can Participating CMS providers make use of them?
36. We seek comment on whether there are other categories of communications service 
providers (e.g., services that support 911 calling) to which a cybersecurity risk management plan 
certification requirement should apply.  Like emergency alerting, 911 is part of the nation’s emergency 
services critical infrastructure.91  Similarly, like the nation’s alert and warning capability, 911 service has 
faced instances of compromise by cyberattacks,92 and is regularly under threat.93  In light of those threats, 
should services that support 911 calling also be required to annually certify to creating, updating, and 
implementing cybersecurity risk management plans?  If so, are there differences between emergency 
alerting and 911 that would warrant changes to the risk management plan requirements we propose today, 
if applied to services that support 911 calling?  Are the benefits and costs of such a requirement 
commensurate with the benefits and costs of certification as described above?
D. Displaying Only Valid WEA Messages on Mobile Devices
37. False alerts, such as the false ballistic missile alert that the Hawaii Emergency 
Management Agency accidentally sent during a training exercise in 2018, can cause panic, confusion, and 
damage the credibility of WEA.  While that false alert was sent accidentally, bad actors could potentially 
exploit known WEA vulnerabilities to intentionally send false alerts to the public.  The Commission’s 
rules require Participating CMS Providers’ network infrastructure to authenticate interactions with mobile 
devices and require mobile devices to authenticate interactions with CMS Provider infrastructure.94  In 
practice, however, the security handshake between Participating CMS Providers and mobile devices does 
not include a process for mobile devices to ensure that the base station to which it attaches is valid.  As a 
result, mobile devices that are not actively engaged with a valid base station are vulnerable to receiving 
and presenting false alerts.  This threat exists when a mobile device attempts authentication with the 
provider, switches base stations, or returns to active from idle mode.
38. Accordingly, we propose to require Participating CMS Providers transmit sufficient 
authentication information to allow mobile devices to present WEA alerts only if they come from valid 
base stations.  Ongoing work in international standards bodies suggests that Participating CMS Providers 
could achieve this outcome by transmitting sufficient authentication information to allow mobile devices 
to authenticate either the alert or the base station itself.  For example, Participating CMS Providers could 
90 FCC, Master WEA Registry, https://www.fcc.gov/files/weamasterregistry112019xls (last visited Aug. 19, 2022) 
(reflecting that 76 CMS Providers participate in WEA either in whole or in part).  The Bureau of Labor Statistics 
reports that the most recent hourly wage for General and Operations Managers is $55, which rises to $82 when 
increased by 50% to also include benefits. See supra n. 49.
91 See CISA, Emergency Services Sector, https://www.cisa.gov/emergency-services-sector (last visited Aug. 22, 
2022).
92 See, e.g., SOS Musings #49 - 911: We Have a Cybersecurity Emergency (May 26, 2021), https://cps-
vo.org/node/76327 (describing a denial-of-service attack reportedly affecting 911 call centers in 12 states).
93 See CISA, CISA Releases Cyber Risks to 911: TDoS Fact Sheet, https://www.cisa.gov/blog/2020/06/09/cisa-
releases-cyber-risks-911-tdos-fact-sheet (last visited Aug. 22, 2022).
94 47 CFR § 10.330(b); 10.500(a).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
19provide for authentication of the base station using a unique identifier or an encryption key.  To what 
extent do Participating CMS Providers already uniquely identify legitimate base stations with a selection 
of base station characteristics to defend against denial-of-service attacks and fraud (i.e., through base 
station fingerprinting)?  Could Participating CMS Providers leverage base station fingerprinting to protect 
the public from false WEA alerts through updates to WEA standards and mobile device firmware?  
Alternatively, or in addition, could WEA-capable mobile devices receive an appropriate encryption key 
from the network and then use that key to confirm either that an alert is authentic or that the base station 
transmitting it is authentic before presenting the alert?  Should our rules prohibit CMS Providers and 
equipment manufacturers from marketing devices as WEA-capable unless they have these technical 
capabilities?
39. We seek comment on the trade-offs attendant to available technological approaches to 
protecting the public from false alerts.  Could implementation of these approaches affect the ability of 
non-service initialized WEA-capable mobile devices, SIM-less WEA-capable mobile devices, or mobile 
devices that are no longer contractually associated with a CMS Provider to receive WEA alerts depending 
on the handset technology or generation of wireless network used?  If so, how could the Commission 
mitigate these potential drawbacks by refining its proposed rules?  To the extent that technological 
solutions have been implemented, is it still possible for a false alert of this type to be displayed on mobile 
devices, and if so, under what conditions?  What steps could be taken to further minimize or eliminate 
these kinds of false alerts?
40. We estimate that Participating CMS Providers would incur a $14.5 million one-time cost 
to update the WEA standards and software necessary to comply with this requirement.  This figure 
consists of approximately a $814,000 cost to update applicable WEA standards and approximately a 
$13.7 million cost to update applicable software.  We quantify the cost of modifying standards as the 
annual compensation for 30 network engineers compensated at the national average for their field 
($120,650/year; $58/hour), plus annual benefits ($60,325/year; 29/hour) working for the amount of time 
that it takes to develop a standard (one hour every other week for one year, 26 hours) for 12 distinct 
standards.95  We quantify the cost of modifying software as the annual compensation for a software 
developer compensated at the national average for their field ($120,990/year), plus annual benefits 
($60,495/year) working for the amount of time that it takes to develop software (one year) at each of the 
76 CMS Providers that participate in WEA.96  We seek comment on these cost estimates and the 
95 30 x ($58 + $29) x 26 x 12 = $814,320, a figure that we round to $814,000 to avoid the false appearance of 
precision in our estimate.  See Bureau of Labor Statistics Employer Costs for Employee Compensation Summary, 
Computer Network Architect (May 2021), https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes151241.htm(last visited Aug. 25, 
2022) (stating that the average base salary for a computer network architect is $120,730/yr); Letter from 
Tom Goode, General Counsel, ATIS, to Marlene Dortch, Secretary, FCC, PS Docket No. 15-91, at 1 
(filed Sep. 6, 2016) (stating that, when standards need to be modified for WEA, it would be common 
practice for groups of approximately 30 individuals with relevant technical expertise meet approximately 
bi-weekly for an hour to discuss the modifications); Bureau of Labor Statistics, Employer Costs for 
Employee Compensation Summary (2022), https://www.bls.gov/news.release/ecec.nr0.htm (stating that, 
as of March 2022, civilian worker benefits accounted for approximately one third of total compensation, 
which in this case is $85,816/yr x. 1.5 = $26,775/yr); Wireless Emergency Alerts; Amendments to Part 11 
of the Commission's Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, PS Docket Nos. 15-91, 15-94, Second 
Report and Order and Second Order on Reconsideration, 33 FCC Rcd 1320, 1344-45, para. 33, n.154 
(2018) (listing the 12 WEA standards).
96 ($120,650 + $60,325) x 76 = $13,754,100, a figure that we round to $13.7 million to avoid the false appearance of 
precision in our estimate.  See Bureau of Labor Statistics Employer Costs for Employee Compensation Summary, 
Software Developers, (May 2021) https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes151252.htm, (last visited Aug. 25, 2022) 
(stating that the average base salary for a software developer is $120,730/year, which results in total compensation 
of $180,960 when benefits are included); Verizon, PS Docket No. 15-91, Comments, PS Docket No. 15-91, at 5 
(Jan. 13, 2016) (stating that it takes manufacturers and vendors 12 months to incorporate WEA standards into their 
(continued….)Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
20underlying cost methodology we are using.  We also seek comment on any other costs and benefits that 
would result from this proposal.  Incidents of false WEA alerts can cause significant confusion and 
diminish the public’s trust in emergency alerts.  For example, what harms could arise if an invalid base 
station sends a false alert to attendees to a public event, such as a parade or sporting event?  For each 
technological approach considered, we urge commenters to address its effectiveness and cost of 
implementation, any additional latency that the measure could introduce into the delivery of WEA alerts, 
and the potential for the security measure to result in the suppression of legitimate alert content.
E. WEA Infrastructure Functionality
41. Pursuant to the WARN Act, CMS Providers’ participation in WEA is voluntary, but 
CMS Providers that elect to participate in WEA must comply with all the WEA rules.97  The WEA rules 
provide that WEA functionality, both in Participating CMS Providers’ networks and in mobile devices, 
“are dependent upon the capabilities of the delivery technologies implemented by a Participating CMS 
Provider” and certain WEA protocols “are defined and controlled by each Participating CMS Provider.”98  
The inclusion of these statements may create the mistaken impression that Participating CMS Providers’ 
compliance with the rules that follow, including the base station authentication rules we propose today, 
would be conditioned on the Participating CMS Providers’ delivery technology.  Emergency management 
agencies expect WEA to work as intended and when needed, and this language unintentionally could 
create uncertainties about the quality of WEA service that Participating CMS Providers offer.99  For these 
reasons, the Commission proposed to remove this language from the WEA rules in 2016.100  T-Mobile, 
ATIS, and CTIA, the only three commenters addressing this proposal, urged the Commission not to adopt 
it because “the rules should maximize the technological flexibility of CMS Providers participating in 
WEA.”101  In the ten years since WEA’s deployment, however, Participating CMS Providers have 
coalesced around cell broadcast as the wireless technology used to transmit WEA alerts to capable mobile 
devices, and ATIS has standardized system performance.102
42. Accordingly, we seek to refresh the record on our proposal to remove these statements 
from the WEA rules.  We believe these provisions introduce confusion and are unnecessary, particularly 
as we do not expect that any Participating CMS Provider would need to make changes to their WEA 
service as a result of this proposed amendment.  We seek comment on this proposal, particularly from any 
CMS Provider that would need to make changes to their WEA offerings in the event that the rules were so 
amended.
products and test them); FCC, Master WEA Registry, https://www.fcc.gov/files/weamasterregistry112019xls (last 
visited Aug. 19, 2022) (reflecting that 76 CMS Providers participate in WEA either in whole or in part).
97 WARN Act, § 1202(a).
98 See 47 CFR § 10.330 (providing a caveat to the WEA infrastructure requirements); 47 CFR § 10.500 (providing a 
caveat to the WEA mobile device requirements).
99 City of Houston Office of Public Safety and Homeland Security Comments, PS Docket No. 15-91, at 4 (Jan. 12, 
2016); Clark County Office of Emergency Management Comments, PS Docket No. 15-91, at 3 (Jan. 13, 2016); 
Jefferson Parish Emergency Management Comments, PS Docket 15-91, at 4 (Dec. 14, 2015).
100 See Wireless Emergency Alerts; Amendments to Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency 
Alert System, PS Docket Nos. 15-91, 15-94, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 31 FCC 
Rcd 11112, 11185, para. 113 (2016) (WEA R&O and FNPRM).
101 T-Mobile USA, Inc., PS Docket No 15-91, Reply, at 10 (Jan. 8, 2017); accord Alliance for Telecommunications 
Industry Solutions (ATIS), PS Docket No. 15-91, Comments, at 3 (Dec. 8, 2016); CTIA, PS Docket No. 15-91, 
Comments, at 8 (Dec. 8, 2016).
102 See, e.g., Enhanced Wireless Emergency Alert (eWEA) via GSM/UMTS Cell Broadcast Service Specification 
(ATIS-0700006.v002).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
21F. Promoting Digital Equity
43. The Commission, as part of its continuing effort to advance digital equity for all,103 
including people of color, persons with disabilities, persons who live in rural or Tribal areas, and others 
who are or have been historically underserved, marginalized, or adversely affected by persistent poverty 
or inequality, invites comment on any equity-related considerations104 and benefits (if any) that may be 
associated with the proposals and issues discussed herein.  Specifically, we seek comment on how our 
proposals may promote or inhibit advances in diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, as well the 
scope of the Commission’s relevant legal authority.105
G. Compliance Timeframes
44.Promoting the Operational Readiness of EAS Equipment.  To the extent that we adopt 
requirements to improve the operational readiness of EAS, we seek comment on when those rules should 
go into effect.  For example, if we were to adopt rules to hasten or improve the Commission’s visibility 
into the repair or replacement of non-operational EAS equipment, should those rules go into effect 30 
days from publication in the Federal Register of notice that the Office of Management and Budget has 
completed its review of the modified information collection?  What factors should we consider when 
determining when alternative operational readiness requirements should go into effect?
45.Improving Awareness of Unauthorized Access to EAS Equipment.  We propose that the 
revision of Section 11.45 to require EAS Participants to report any incident of unauthorized access of 
their EAS equipment would be effective 60 days from publication in the Federal Register of notice that 
the Office of Management and Budget has completed its review of the modified information collection.  
We seek comment on this proposed timeframe.  In the NDAA21 R&O, the Commission required EAS 
Participants to report false alerts to the Commission and, in a subsequent Public Notice, announced a 
compliance deadline approximately 60 days from publication in the Federal Register of notice that the 
Office of Management and Budget has approved the modified information collection.106  We seek 
comment on whether an EAS Participant’s process for ascertaining whether an incident of unauthorized 
access of its EAS equipment has occurred and reporting it to the Commission entails a level of effort 
comparable to compliance with the Commission’s false alert reporting requirement.  Would EAS 
Participants’ compliance with the Commission’s false alert reporting requirement reduce the incremental 
burden of compliance with this proposal?
103 Section 1 of the Communications Act of 1934 as amended provides that the FCC “regulat[es] interstate and 
foreign commerce in communication by wire and radio so as to make [such service] available, so far as possible, to 
all the people of the United States, without discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, or 
sex.”  47 U.S.C. § 151.
104 The term “equity” is used here consistent with Executive Order 13985 as the consistent and systematic fair, just, 
and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have 
been denied such treatment, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans 
and Pacific Islanders and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons 
otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.  See Exec. Order No. 13985, 86 Fed. Reg. 7009, 
Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal 
Government (Jan. 20, 2021).
105 See Wireless Emergency Alerts; Amendments to Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency 
Alert System, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FCC 16-127, PS Docket Nos. 15-191 
and 15-94, Para. 176 at 11217 (Sept. 29, 2016) (2016 EAS Amendments to Part 11).
106 Amendment of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System; Wireless Emergency Alerts, PS 
Dockets 15-94 and 15-91, Report and Order, 36 FCC Rcd 10694 (June 17, 2021) (NDAA21 R&O); Public Safety 
and Homeland Security Bureau Announces Compliance Dates for Certain Emergency Alert System (EAS) and 
Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) Rules, PS Docket Nos. 15-91, 15-94, Public Notice, DA 22-600 (Jun. 6, 2022).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
2246.Certifying to the Implementation of Cybersecurity Risk Management Plans.  We propose 
that EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers must certify to the implementation of a 
cybersecurity risk management plan that includes measures sufficient to ensure the confidentiality, 
integrity, and reliability of their respective alerting systems within 12 months of the publication in the 
Federal Register of notice that the Office of Management and Budget has completed its review of the 
modified information collection.  A 12-month timeframe would be intended to provide time for EAS 
Participants that do not already have a risk management plan in place to create one, including by 
preparing the organization to manage security and privacy risks, categorizing the systems and the 
information that it processes, stores, and transmits, and selecting controls to protect the system.  A 12-
month timeframe could also provide time to implement the security controls that the plan describes, 
assess whether the controls are in place, operating as intended, and producing the desired results, appoint 
a senior official to authorize the system, and develop mechanisms to continuously monitor control 
implementation and risks to the system.  We seek comment on these proposals.  Should we offer EAS 
Participants and Participating CMS Providers who are small businesses an additional 12 months to 
comply with this requirement, with compliance required within 24 months of publication in the Federal 
Register of notice that the Office of Management and Budget has completed its review of the modified 
information collection?  Is there any reason why EAS and Participating CMS Providers should have 
different implementation timeframes?
47.Displaying Only Valid WEA Messages on Mobile Devices.  We propose that CMS 
Providers transmit sufficient authentication information to allow mobile devices to present WEA alerts 
only if they come from valid base stations 30 months from the publication of these rules in the Federal 
Register.  The record in our WEA proceedings supports the premise that Participating CMS Providers 
require 12 months to work through appropriate industry bodies to publish relevant standards, another 12 
months for Participating CMS Providers and mobile device manufacturers to develop, test, and integrate 
software upgrades consistent with those standards, and then 6 more months to deploy this new technology 
to the field during normal technology refresh cycles.107  We seek comment on the applicability of this 
approach and timeframe, with which Participating CMS Providers have experience, to this proposal.  We 
seek comment, in the alternative, on whether the urgent public safety need to protect the public from false 
alerts necessitates an expedited compliance timeframe and, if so, what that compliance timeframe should 
be.
48.WEA Infrastructure Functionality.  We propose to remove language from our WEA 
infrastructure and mobile device rules effective 30 days after the rules’ publication in the Federal 
Register.  We do not believe that Participating CMS Providers will need to make any changes to comply 
with these rules as revised because they offer a WEA service that is consistent with the rules as otherwise 
written.  We seek comment on this compliance timeframe and on this view.
IV. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
49.Paperwork Reduction Act.  This document contains proposed new and modified 
information collection requirements.  The Commission, as part of its continuing effort to reduce 
paperwork burdens, invites the general public and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to 
comment on the information collection requirements contained in this document, as required by the 
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, Public Law 104-13.  In addition, pursuant to the Small Business 
Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, Public Law 107-198, see 44 U.S.C. § 3506(c)(4), we seek specific 
comment on how we might further reduce the information collection burden for small business concerns 
with fewer than 25 employees.
50.Ex Parte Rules - Permit-But-Disclose.  This proceeding this Notice initiates shall be 
treated as a “permit-but-disclose” proceeding in accordance with the Commission’s ex parte rules.108  
107 See WEA R&O and NPRM, 31 FCC Rcd at 11161-62, para. 79.
108 47 CFR §§ 1.1200 et seq.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
23Persons making ex parte presentations must file a copy of any written presentation or a memorandum 
summarizing any oral presentation within two business days after the presentation (unless a different 
deadline applicable to the Sunshine period applies).  Persons making oral ex parte presentations are 
reminded that memoranda summarizing the presentation must (1) list all persons attending or otherwise 
participating in the meeting at which the ex parte presentation was made, and (2) summarize all data 
presented and arguments made during the presentation.  If the presentation consisted in whole or in part of 
the presentation of data or arguments already reflected in the presenter’s written comments, memoranda 
or other filings in the proceeding, the presenter may provide citations to such data or arguments in his or 
her prior comments, memoranda, or other filings (specifying the relevant page and/or paragraph numbers 
where such data or arguments can be found) in lieu of summarizing them in the memorandum.  
Documents shown or given to Commission staff during ex parte meetings are deemed to be written ex 
parte presentations and must be filed consistent with Rule 1.1206(b).  In proceedings governed by Rule 
1.49(f) or for which the Commission has made available a method of electronic filing, written ex parte 
presentations and memoranda summarizing oral ex parte presentations, and all attachments thereto, must 
be filed through the electronic comment filing system available for that proceeding, and must be filed in 
their native format (e.g., .doc, .xml, .ppt, searchable .pdf).  Participants in this proceeding should 
familiarize themselves with the Commission’s ex parte rules.
51.Regulatory Flexibility Act.  The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended 
(RFA),109 requires that an agency prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis for notice and comment 
rulemakings, unless the agency certifies that “the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant 
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.”110  Accordingly, the Commission has 
prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) concerning the possible impact of the rule and 
policy changes contained in this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.  The IRFA is set forth in Appendix B.
52.Filing Requirements—Comments and Replies.  Pursuant to sections 1.415 and 1.419 of 
the Commission’s rules, 47 CFR §§ 1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments and reply 
comments on or before the dates indicated on the first page of this document.  Comments may be filed 
using the Commission’s Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS).  See Electronic Filing of Documents 
in Rulemaking Proceedings, 63 FR 24121 (1998).
•Electronic Filers:  Comments may be filed electronically using the Internet by accessing the 
ECFS:  https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs/.
•Paper Filers:  Parties who choose to file by paper must file an original and one copy of each 
filing.
•Filings can be sent by commercial overnight courier, or by first-class or overnight U.S. Postal 
Service mail.  All filings must be addressed to the Commission’s Secretary, Office of the 
Secretary, Federal Communications Commission.
oCommercial overnight mail (other than U.S. Postal Service Express Mail and Priority 
Mail) must be sent to 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis Junction, MD 20701.
oPostal Service first-class, Express, and Priority mail must be addressed to 45 L Street, 
NE, Washington, DC 20554.
•Effective March 19, 2020, and until further notice, the Commission no longer accepts any 
hand or messenger delivered filings.  This is a temporary measure taken to help protect the 
109 See 5 U.S.C. § 603.  The RFA, 5 U.S.C. §§ 601–612, was amended by the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (SBREFA), Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996). 
110 Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
24health and safety of individuals, and to mitigate the transmission of COVID-19.111
•During the time the Commission’s building is closed to the general public and until further 
notice, if more than one docket or rulemaking number appears in the caption of a proceeding, 
paper filers need not submit two additional copies for each additional docket or rulemaking 
number; an original and one copy are sufficient.
53.People with Disabilities.  To request materials in accessible formats for people with 
disabilities (braille, large print, electronic files, audio format), send an e-mail to fcc504@fcc.gov or call 
the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau at 202-418-0530 (voice), 202-418-0432 (tty).
54.Additional Information.  For further information regarding Notice, please contact James 
Wiley, Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability Division, Public Safety and Homeland Security 
Bureau, (202) 418-1678, or by email to james.wiley@fcc.gov, or Steven Carpenter, Cybersecurity and 
Communications Reliability Division, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, (202) 418-2313, or 
by email to steven.carpenter@fcc.gov.
V. ORDERING CLAUSES
55. Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that pursuant to Sections 1, 2, 4(i), 4(n), 301, 303(b), 
303(g), 303(r), 303(v), 307, 309, 335, 403, 624(g), and 706 of the Communications Act of 1934, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C §§ 151, 152, 154(i), 154(n), 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 303(v), 307, 309, 335, 403, 
544(g), and 606; The Warning, Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act, WARN Act §§ 602(a), (b), 
(c), (f), 603, 604, and 606, 47 U.S.C. §§ 1202(a),(b),(c), (f), 1203, 1204 and 1206; the Wireless 
Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999, Pub. L. No. 106-81, 47 U.S.C. §§ 615, 615a, 615b; 
Section 202 of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C. § 613, this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking IS hereby ADOPTED.
56. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission’s Consumer and Governmental 
Affairs Bureau, Reference Information Center, SHALL SEND a copy of this Notice, including the Initial 
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration.
111 See FCC Announces Closure of FCC Headquarters Open Window and Change in Hand-Delivery Policy, Public 
Notice, 35 FCC Rcd 2788 (2020).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
APPENDIX A:  Proposed Rules
For the reasons set forth above, Parts 10 and 11 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations are 
amended as follows:
PART 10 – WIRELESS EMERGENCY ALERTS
1. The authority citation for part 10 continues to read as follows:
Authority: [To be inserted prior to Federal Register publication.]
2. Revise § 10.330 to read as follows: 
§ 10.330 Provider infrastructure requirements.
This section specifies the general functions that a Participating CMS Provider is required to 
perform within its infrastructure.
(a) Distribution of Alert Messages to mobile devices.
(b) Authentication of interactions with mobile devices, including the transmission of sufficient 
authentication information to allow mobile devices to only present WEA alerts from valid base stations.
(c) Reference Points D & E. Reference Point D is the interface between a CMS Provider gateway 
and its infrastructure. Reference Point E is the interface between a provider’s infrastructure and 
mobile devices including air interfaces.
3. Add § 10.360 to subpart C to read as follows:
§ 10.360 Cybersecurity Risk Management Plan Certification.
(a) Each participating CMS Provider shall submit a certification to the Commission that it has 
created, annually updated, and implemented a cybersecurity risk management plan.  The cybersecurity 
risk management plan shall describe how the Participating CMS Provider employs its organizational 
resources and processes to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of WEA.  The plan shall 
discuss how the Participating CMS Provider identifies the cyber risks that it faces, the controls it uses to 
mitigate those risks, and how it ensures that these controls are applied effectively to its operations.  The 
plan shall address the security of all aspects of the Participating CMS Provider’s communications systems 
and services that potentially could affect its provision of WEA messages.  The plan shall be made 
available to the Commission upon request.
(b) Participating CMS Providers shall employ sufficient security controls to ensure the 
confidentially, integrity, and availability of the EAS.  In furtherance of this requirement, the cybersecurity 
risk management plan shall address, but not be limited to, the following security controls:
(1) Changing default passwords prior to operation;
(2) Installing security updates in a timely manner;
(3) Securing equipment behind properly configured firewalls or using other segmentation 
practices;
(4) Requiring multifactor authentication where applicable;
(5) Addressing the replacement of end-of-life equipment; and
(6) Wiping, clearing, or encrypting user information before disposing of old devices.
(c) Participating CMS Providers shall take reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of EAS to avoid the transmission of false alerts or non-transmission of valid 
Alert Messages; failure to do so shall be, in addition to a violation of any specific provisions of this 
section, § 11.45(a) of this chapter, or § 10.520(d), an independent breach of this duty.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
264. Revise § 10.500 introductory text as follows:
§ 10.500 General requirements.
Mobile devices are required to perform the following functions:
* * * * *
PART 11 – EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM (EAS)
5. The authority citation for part 11 continues to read as follows:
Authority: [To be inserted prior to Federal Register publication.]
6. In § 11.35, add paragraph (d) to read as follows:
§ 11.35 Equipment operational readiness.
* * * * *
(d) Annual EAS Security Certification.
(1) The identifying information required by the ETRS as specified in 
§11.61(a)(3)(iv) shall include a Certification to the Commission that the EAS Participant has 
created, annually updated, and implemented a cybersecurity risk management plan.  The 
cybersecurity risk management plan shall describe how the EAS Participant employs its 
organizational resources and processes to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of 
the EAS.  The plan shall discuss how the EAS Participant identifies the cyber risks that its faces, 
the controls it uses to mitigate those risks, and how it ensures that these controls are applied 
effectively to their operations.  The plan shall address the security of all aspects of an EAS 
Participant’s communications systems and services that potentially could affect its provision of 
EAS messages.  The plan shall be made available to the Commission upon request.
(2) EAS Participants shall employ sufficient security controls to ensure the confidentially, 
integrity, and availability of the EAS.  In furtherance of this requirement, the cybersecurity risk 
management plan shall address, but not be limited to, the following security controls:
(i) Changing default passwords prior to operation;
(ii) Installing security updates in a timely manner;
(iii) Securing equipment behind properly configured firewalls or using other 
segmentation practices;
(iv) Requiring multifactor authentication where applicable;
(v) Addressing the replacement of end-of-life equipment; and
(vi) Wiping, clearing, or encrypting user information before disposing of old 
devices.
(3) EAS Participants shall take reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of EAS to avoid the transmission of false alerts or non-transmission of 
valid EAS messages; failure to do so shall be, in addition to a violation of any specific provisions 
of this section, § 11.45(a), or § 10.520(d) of this chapter, an independent breach of this duty.
7. Revise § 11.45 by redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (d) and adding a new paragraph (c) to 
read as follows:Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
27§ 11.45 Prohibition of false or deceptive EAS transmissions.
* * * * *
(c) No later than seventy-two (72) hours after an EAS Participant knows or should have known 
that its EAS equipment, or communications systems, or services that potentially could affect their 
provision of EAS, have been accessed in an unauthorized manner, the EAS Participant shall provide 
notification to the Commission identifying, if applicable, the date range of the incident, a description of 
the unauthorized access, the impact to the EAS Participant’s EAS operational readiness, a description of 
the vulnerabilities exploited and the techniques used to access the device, identifying information for each 
actor responsible for the incident, and contact information for the EAS Participant.  When one event or set 
of events gives rise to obligations under both paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, an EAS Participant 
remains subject to each requirement individually.  The Participant may elect to send a single notification 
to the Commission within 24 hours providing all the information described in both paragraphs or separate 
notification to the Commission within 24 hours and 72 hours.
(d) * * *  Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
APPENDIX B
Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
1. As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended (RFA),1 the 
Commission has prepared this Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the possible significant 
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities by the policies and rules proposed in the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Notice).  Written public comments are requested on this IRFA.  
Comments must be identified as responses to the IRFA and must be filed by the deadlines for comments 
on the Notice.  The Commission will send a copy of the Notice, including this IRFA, to the Chief Counsel 
for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration (SBA).2  In addition, the Notice and IRFA (or 
summaries thereof) will be published in the Federal Register.3
A. Need for, and Objectives of, the Proposed Rules
2. The security of the nation’s alert and warning systems is essential to helping safeguard 
the lives and property of all Americans.  To ensure that the EAS and WEA remain strong, the 
Commission must act proactively in its oversight of stakeholders associated with these systems.  The 
Commission has previously encouraged stakeholders to ensure that their systems are secure and provided 
guidance on specific steps that communications providers could take to secure their equipment.  
According to data collected by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau (Bureau) during the 
nationwide EAS test in August 2021 however, more than 5,000 EAS Participants were using outdated 
software or using equipment that no longer supported regular software updates.  Moreover, in the area of 
equipment operational readiness, the test also revealed that an appreciable number of EAS Participants 
were unable to participate in testing due to equipment failure.  This was despite receiving advanced notice 
that the test was going to be conducted.  The Commission therefore believes the information revealed in 
the nationwide EAS test signals that we should take action to ensure and enhance the security of the EAS 
and WEA.  In the Notice, the Commission acts to improve the security and reliability of the EAS and 
WEA by proposing and seeking comment on rules promoting the operational readiness of EAS 
equipment, improving awareness of unauthorized access to EAS equipment, communications systems, or 
services, protecting the nation’s alerting systems through the development, implementation, and 
certification of a cybersecurity risk management plan and displaying only valid WEA messages on mobile 
devices.
3. Specific proposals upon which the Commission seeks comment include: requiring EAS 
Participants and Participating CMS Providers to annually certify to having a cybersecurity risk 
management plan in place and employing sufficient security controls to ensure the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of their respective alerting systems (including certain baseline security 
controls); requiring EAS Participants to report any incident of unauthorized access of their EAS 
equipment, communications systems, or services (i.e., regardless of whether that compromise has resulted 
in the transmission of a false alert) to the Commission via NORS within 72 hours of when it knew or 
should have known that an incident has occurred, and provide details concerning the incident and 
requiring that mobile devices only present WEA alerts from valid base stations.  In addition, the 
Commission seeks comment on whether and how to promote the operational readiness of EAS.  The 
Commission also seeks comment to refresh the record on previously proposed changes to the WEA 
infrastructure functionality rules,4 and on how our proposals in the Notice may promote or inhibit 
1 See 5 U.S.C. § 603.  The RFA, 5 U.S.C. §§ 601-612, has been amended by the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (SBREFA), Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996).
2 See 5 U.S.C. § 603(a).
3 See id.
4 See Wireless Emergency Alerts; Amendments to Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency 
Alert System, PS Docket Nos. 15-91, 15-94, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 31 FCC 
Rcd 11112, 11185, para. 113 (2016) (WEA R&O and FNPRM).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
29advances in diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, as well as on the scope of the Commission’s 
relevant legal authority.
B. Legal Basis
4. The proposed action is authorized pursuant to Sections 1, 2, 4(i), 4(n), 301, 303(b), 
303(g), 303(r), 303(v), 307, 309, 335, 403, 624(g), and 706 of the Communications Act of 1934, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C. §§ 151, 152, 154(i), 154(n), 301, 303(b), 303(g), 303(r), 303(v), 307, 309, 335, 403, 
544(g), and 606; The Warning, Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act, WARN Act §§ 602(a), (b), 
(c), (f), 603, 604, and 606, 47 U.S.C. §§ 1202(a),(b),(c), (f), 1203, 1204 and 1206; the Wireless 
Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999, Pub. L. No. 106-81, 47 U.S.C. §§ 615, 615a, 615b; 
Section 202 of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C. § 613.
C. Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which the Proposed Rules 
Will Apply
5. The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of and, where feasible, an estimate of, 
the number of small entities that may be affected by the proposed rules, if adopted.5  The RFA generally 
defines the term “small entity” as having the same meaning as the terms “small business,” “small 
organization,” and “small governmental jurisdiction.”6  In addition, the term “small business” has the 
same meaning as the term “small business concern” under the Small Business Act.7  A “small business 
concern” is one which:  (1) is independently owned and operated; (2) is not dominant in its field of 
operation; and (3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the Small Business Administration 
(SBA).8
6.Small Businesses, Small Organizations, Small Governmental Jurisdictions.  Our actions, 
over time, may affect small entities that are not easily categorized at present.  We therefore describe here, 
at the outset, three broad groups of small entities that could be directly affected herein.9  First, while there 
are industry specific size standards for small businesses that are used in the regulatory flexibility analysis, 
according to data from the SBA’s Office of Advocacy, in general a small business is an independent 
business having fewer than 500 employees.10  These types of small businesses represent 99.9% of all 
businesses in the United States, which translates to 32.5 million businesses.11
7. Next, the type of small entity described as a “small organization” is generally “any not-
for-profit enterprise which is independently owned and operated and is not dominant in its field.”12 The 
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses a revenue benchmark of $50,000 or less to delineate its annual 
5 See id. § 603(b)(3).
6 See id. § 601(6).
7 See id.§ 601(3) (incorporating by reference the definition of “small-business concern” in the Small Business Act, 
15 U.S.C. § 632).  Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 601(3), the statutory definition of a small business applies “unless an 
agency, after consultation with the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration and after opportunity 
for public comment, establishes one or more definitions of such term which are appropriate to the activities of the 
agency and publishes such definition(s) in the Federal Register.”
8 15 U.S.C. § 632.
9 See 5 U.S.C. § 601(3)-(6).
10 See SBA, Office of Advocacy, Frequently Asked Questions, “What is a small business?,” 
https://cdn.advocacy.sba.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/03093005/Small-Business-FAQ-2021.pdf.  (Nov 2021).
11 Id.
12 See 5 U.S.C. § 601(4).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
30electronic filing requirements for small exempt organizations.13  Nationwide, for tax year 2020, there 
were approximately 447,689 small exempt organizations in the U.S. reporting revenues of $50,000 or less 
according to the registration and tax data for exempt organizations available from the IRS.14
8. Finally, the small entity described as a “small governmental jurisdiction” is defined 
generally as “governments of cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts, or special 
districts, with a population of less than fifty thousand.”15  U.S. Census Bureau data from the 2017 Census 
of Governments16 indicate that there were 90,075 local governmental jurisdictions consisting of general 
purpose governments and special purpose governments in the United States.17  Of this number there were 
36,931 general purpose governments (county,18 municipal and town or township19) with populations of 
less than 50,000 and 12,040 special purpose governments - independent school districts20 with enrollment 
13 The IRS benchmark is similar to the population of less than 50,000 benchmark in 5 U.S.C § 601(5) that is used to 
define a small governmental jurisdiction. Therefore, the IRS benchmark has been used to estimate the number small 
organizations in this small entity description.  See Annual Electronic Filing Requirement for Small Exempt 
Organizations — Form 990-N (e-Postcard),  https://www.irs.gov/charities-non-profits/annual-electronic-filing-
requirement-for-small-exempt-organizations-form-990-n-e-postcard.  We note that the IRS data does not provide 
information on whether a small exempt organization is independently owned and operated or dominant in its field.
14 See Exempt Organizations Business Master File Extract (EO BMF), "CSV Files by Region," 
https://www.irs.gov/charities-non-profits/exempt-organizations-business-master-file-extract-eo-bmf.  The IRS 
Exempt Organization Business Master File (EO BMF) Extract provides information on all registered tax-
exempt/non-profit organizations. The data utilized for purposes of this description was extracted from the IRS EO 
BMF data for businesses for the tax year 2020 with revenue less than or equal to $50,000, for Region 1-Northeast 
Area (58,577), Region 2-Mid-Atlantic and Great Lakes Areas (175,272), and Region 3-Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast 
Areas (213,840) which includes the continental U.S., Alaska, and Hawaii.  This data does not include information 
for Puerto Rico.
15 See 5 U.S.C. § 601(5).
16 See 13 U.S.C. § 161.  The Census of Governments survey is conducted every five (5) years compiling data for 
years ending with “2” and “7”.  See also Census of Governments, https://www.census.gov/programs-
surveys/cog/about.html.
17 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Census of Governments – Organization Table 2. Local Governments by Type and 
State: 2017 [CG1700ORG02],  https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/econ/gus/2017-governments.html.  Local 
governmental jurisdictions are made up of general purpose governments (county, municipal and town or township) 
and special purpose governments (special districts and independent school districts).  See also tbl.2. CG1700ORG02 
Table Notes_Local Governments by Type and State_2017.
18 See id. at tbl.5.  County Governments by Population-Size Group and State: 2017 [CG1700ORG05],  
https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/econ/gus/2017-governments.html.  There were 2,105 county governments 
with populations less than 50,000.  This category does not include subcounty (municipal and township) 
governments.
19 See id. at tbl.6.  Subcounty General-Purpose Governments by Population-Size Group and State: 2017 
[CG1700ORG06], https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/econ/gus/2017-governments.html.  There were 18,729 
municipal and 16,097 town and township governments with populations less than 50,000.
20 See id. at tbl.10.  Elementary and Secondary School Systems by Enrollment-Size Group and State: 2017 
[CG1700ORG10], https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/econ/gus/2017-governments.html.  There were 12,040 
independent school districts with enrollment populations less than 50,000.  See also tbl.4.  Special-Purpose Local 
Governments by State Census Years 1942 to 2017 [CG1700ORG04], CG1700ORG04 Table Notes_Special Purpose 
Local Governments by State_Census Years 1942 to 2017.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
31populations of less than 50,000.21  Accordingly, based on the 2017 U.S. Census of Governments data, we 
estimate that at least 48,971 entities fall into the category of “small governmental jurisdictions.”22
9.Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).  This industry comprises 
establishments engaged in operating and maintaining switching and transmission facilities to provide 
communications via the airwaves.23  Establishments in this industry have spectrum licenses and provide 
services using that spectrum, such as cellular services, paging services, wireless internet access, and 
wireless video services.24 The SBA size standard for this industry classifies a business as small if it has 
1,500 or fewer employees.25   U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 2,893 firms in this 
industry that operated for the entire year.26   Of that number, 2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 
employees.27  Additionally, based on Commission data in the 2021 Universal Service Monitoring Report, 
as of December 31, 2020, there were 797 providers that reported they were engaged in the provision of 
wireless services.28  Of these providers, the Commission estimates that 715 providers have 1,500 or fewer 
employees.29  Consequently, using the SBA’s small business size standard, most of these providers can be 
considered small entities.
10.Broadband Personal Communications Service.  The broadband personal communications 
services (PCS) spectrum encompasses services in the 1850-1910 and 1930-1990 MHz bands.30  The 
closest industry with a SBA small business size standard applicable to these services is Wireless 
Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).31  The SBA small business size standard for this industry 
classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.32  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 
21 While the special purpose governments category also includes local special district governments, the 2017 Census 
of Governments data does not provide data aggregated based on population size for the special purpose governments 
category.  Therefore, only data from independent school districts is included in the special purpose governments 
category.
22 This total is derived from the sum of the number of general purpose governments (county, municipal and town or 
township) with populations of less than 50,000 (36,931) and the number of special purpose governments - 
independent school districts with enrollment populations of less than 50,000 (12,040), from the 2017 Census of 
Governments - Organizations tbls.5, 6 & 10.
23 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
24 Id.
25 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
26 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
27 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
28 Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service, Universal Service Monitoring Report at 26, Table 1.12 (2021),
https://docs.fcc.gov/pubId.lic/attachments/DOC-379181A1.pdf.
29 Id.
30 See 47 CFR § 24.200.
31 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
32 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
32show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the entire year.33  Of this number, 2,837 
firms employed fewer than 250 employees.34  Thus under the SBA size standard, the Commission 
estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be considered small.
11. Based on Commission data as of November 2021, there were approximately 5,060 active 
licenses in the Broadband PCS service.35  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to 
Broadband PCS involve eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the auction of licenses 
for these services.  In auctions for these licenses, the Commission defined “small business” as an entity 
that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues not exceeding $40 
million for the preceding three years, and a “very small business” as an entity that, together with its 
affiliates and controlling interests, has had average annual gross revenues not exceeding $15 million for 
the preceding three years.36  Winning bidders claiming small business credits won Broadband PCS 
licenses in C, D, E, and F Blocks.37
12. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these, at this time we are not able to estimate the 
number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small business size 
standard.
13. Narrowband Personal Communications Services. Narrowband Personal Communications 
Services (Narrowband PCS) are PCS services operating in the 901-902 MHz, 930-931 MHz, and 940-941 
MHz bands.38  PCS services are radio communications that encompass mobile and ancillary fixed 
communication that provide services to individuals and businesses and can be integrated with a variety of 
competing networks.39  Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)40 is the closest industry 
with a SBA small business size standard applicable to these services.  The SBA small business size 
standard for this industry classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.41  U.S. Census 
33 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
34 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
35 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on November 16, 2021,  
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = CW; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
36 See 47 CFR § 24.720(b).
37 See Federal Communications Commission, Office of Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auctions 4, 5, 10, 11, 
22, 35, 58, 71 and 78, https://www.fcc.gov/auctions.
38 See 47 CFR § 24.5.
39 Id.
40 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
41 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
33Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the entire year.42  
Of this number, 2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 employees.43  Thus under the SBA size standard, 
the Commission estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be considered small.
14. According to Commission data as of December 2021, there were approximately 4,211 
active Narrowband PCS licenses.44  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to 
Narrowband PCS involve eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the auction of 
licenses for these services.  For the auction of these licenses, the Commission defined a “small business” 
as an entity that, together with affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues for the three 
preceding years of not more than $40 million.45  A “very small business” is defined as an entity that, 
together with affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues for the three preceding years 
of not more than $15 million.46  Pursuant to these definitions, 7 winning bidders claiming small and very 
small bidding credits won approximately 359 licenses.47  One of the winning bidders claiming a small 
business status classification in these Narrowband PCS license auctions had an active license as of 
December 2021.48
15. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
16.Wireless Communications Services.  Wireless Communications Services (WCS) can be 
used for a variety of fixed, mobile, radiolocation, and digital audio broadcasting satellite services. 
Wireless spectrum is made available and licensed for the provision of wireless communications services 
in several frequency bands subject to Part 27 of the Commission’s rules.49  Wireless Telecommunications 
42 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
43 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
44 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 10, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = CN; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
45 See 47 CFR § 24.321(a)(1)-(2).
46 Id.
47 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 41: Narrowband PCS, 
Summary, Closing Charts, License By Bidder,
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/41/charts/41cls2.pdf; Auction 50: Narrowband PCS, 
Summary, Closing Charts, License By Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/50/charts/50cls2.pdf.
48 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 10, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = CN; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
49 See 47 CFR §§ 27.1 – 27.1607.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
34Carriers (except Satellite)50 is the closest industry with a SBA small business size standard applicable to 
these services.  The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies a business as small if it 
has 1,500 or fewer employees.51  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 2,893 firms that 
operated in this industry for the entire year.52  Of this number, 2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 
employees.53  Thus under the SBA size standard, the Commission estimates that a majority of licensees in 
this industry can be considered small.
17. The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to WCS involve eligibility 
for bidding credits and installment payments in the auction of licenses for the various frequency bands 
included in WCS.  When bidding credits are adopted for the auction of licenses in WCS frequency bands, 
such credits may be available to several types of small businesses based average gross revenues (small, 
very small and entrepreneur) pursuant to the competitive bidding rules adopted in conjunction with the 
requirements for the auction and/or as identified in the designated entities section in Part 27 of the 
Commission’s rules for the specific WCS frequency bands.54
18. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
19.700 MHz Guard Band Licensees.  The 700 MHz Guard Band encompasses spectrum in 
746-747/776-777 MHz and 762-764/792-794 MHz frequency bands.  Wireless Telecommunications 
Carriers (except Satellite)55 is the closest industry with a SBA small business size standard applicable to 
licenses providing services in these bands.  The SBA small business size standard for this industry 
classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.56  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 
show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the entire year.57  Of this number, 2,837 
50 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
51 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
52 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
53 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
54 See 47 CFR §§ 27.201 – 27.1601. The Designated entities sections in Subparts D – Q each contain the small 
business size standards adopted for the auction of the frequency band covered by that subpart.
55 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
56 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
57 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
35firms employed fewer than 250 employees.58  Thus under the SBA size standard, the Commission 
estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be considered small.
20. According to Commission data as of December 2021, there were approximately 224 
active 700 MHz Guard Band licenses.59  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to 
700 MHz Guard Band licensees involve eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the 
auction of licenses.  For the auction of these licenses, the Commission defined a “small business” as an 
entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling principals, has average gross revenues not exceeding 
$40 million for the preceding three years, and a “very small business” an entity that, together with its 
affiliates and controlling principals, has average gross revenues that are not more than $15 million for the 
preceding three years.60  Pursuant to these definitions, five winning bidders claiming one of the small 
business status classifications won 26 licenses, and one winning bidder claiming small business won two 
licenses.61 None of the winning bidders claiming a small business status classification in these 700 MHz 
Guard Band license auctions had an active license as of December 2021.62
21. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
22.Lower 700 MHz Band Licenses.  The lower 700 MHz band encompasses spectrum in the 
698-746 MHz frequency bands.  Permissible operations in these bands include flexible fixed, mobile, and 
broadcast uses, including mobile and other digital new broadcast operation; fixed and mobile wireless 
commercial services (including FDD- and TDD-based services); as well as fixed and mobile wireless uses 
for private, internal radio needs, two-way interactive, cellular, and mobile television broadcasting 
services.63 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)64 is the closest industry with a SBA 
small business size standard applicable to licenses providing services in these bands.  The SBA small 
58 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
59 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 14, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = WX; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
60 See 47 CFR § 27.502(a).
61 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 33: Upper 700 MHz 
Guard Bands, Summary, Closing Charts, Licenses by Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/33/charts/33cls2.pdf, Auction 38: Upper 700 MHz Guard 
Bands, Summary, Closing Charts, Licenses by Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/38/charts/38cls2.pdf.
62 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 14, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = WX; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
63 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auctions 44, 49, 60: Lower 700 
MHz Band, Fact Sheet, Permissible Operations, https://www.fcc.gov/auction/44/factsheet, 
https://www.fcc.gov/auction/49/factsheet, https://www.fcc.gov/auction/60/factsheet.
64 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
36business size standard for this industry classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.65  
U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the 
entire year.66  Of this number, 2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 employees.67  Thus under the SBA 
size standard, the Commission estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be considered 
small.
23. According to Commission data as of December 2021, there were approximately 2,824 
active Lower 700 MHz Band licenses.68  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to 
Lower 700 MHz Band licensees involve eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the 
auction of licenses.  For auctions of Lower 700 MHz Band licenses the Commission adopted criteria for 
three groups of small businesses.  A very small business was defined as an entity that, together with its 
affiliates and controlling interests, has average annual gross revenues not exceeding $15 million for the 
preceding three years, a small business was defined as an entity that, together with its affiliates and 
controlling interests, has average gross revenues not exceeding $40 million for the preceding three years, 
and an entrepreneur was defined as an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has 
average gross revenues not exceeding $3 million for the preceding three years.69 In auctions for Lower 
700 MHz Band licenses seventy-two winning bidders claiming a small business classification won 329 
licenses,70  twenty-six winning bidders claiming a small business classification won 214 licenses,71 and 
three winning bidders claiming a small business classification won all five auctioned licenses.72
24. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
65 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
66 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
67 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
68 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 14, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = WY, WZ; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note 
that the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more 
licenses.
69 See 47 CFR § 27.702(a)(1)-(3).
70 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 44: Lower 700 MHz 
Guard Bands, Summary, Closing Charts, Licenses by Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/44/charts/44cls2.pdf.
71 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 49: Lower 700 MHz 
Guard Bands, Summary, Closing Charts, Licenses by Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/49/charts/49cls2.pdf.
72 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 60: Lower 700 MHz 
Guard Bands, Summary, Closing Charts, Licenses by Bidder, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/60/charts/60cls2.pdf.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
3725.Upper 700 MHz Band Licenses.  The upper 700 MHz band encompasses spectrum in the 
746-806 MHz bands.  Upper 700 MHz D Block licenses are nationwide licenses associated with the 758-
763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands.73  Permissible operations in these bands include flexible fixed, 
mobile, and broadcast uses, including mobile and other digital new broadcast operation; fixed and mobile 
wireless commercial services (including FDD- and TDD-based services); as well as fixed and mobile 
wireless uses for private, internal radio needs, two-way interactive, cellular, and mobile television 
broadcasting services.74 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)75 is the closest industry 
with a SBA small business size standard applicable to licenses providing services in these bands.  The 
SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer 
employees.76  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this 
industry for the entire year.77  Of that number, 2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 employees.78  Thus, 
under the SBA size standard, the Commission estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be 
considered small.
26. According to Commission data as of December 2021, there were approximately 152 
active Upper 700 MHz Band licenses.79  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to 
Upper 700 MHz Band licensees involve eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the 
auction of licenses.  For the auction of these licenses, the Commission defined a “small business” as an 
entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling principals, has average gross revenues not exceeding 
$40 million for the preceding three years, and a “very small business” an entity that, together with its 
affiliates and controlling principals, has average gross revenues that are not more than $15 million for the 
preceding three years.80  Pursuant to these definitions, three winning bidders claiming very small business 
status won five of the twelve available licenses.81 
27. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
73 See 47 CFR § 27.4.
74 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 73: 700 MHz Band, Fact 
Sheet, Permissible Operations, https://www.fcc.gov/auction/73/factsheet. We note that in Auction 73, Upper 700 
MHz Band C and D Blocks as well as Lower 700 MHz Band A, B, and E Blocks were auctioned.
75 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
76 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
77 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
78 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
79 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 14, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = WP, WU; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note 
that the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more 
licenses.
80 See 47 CFR § 27.502(a).
81 See Auction of 700 MHz Band Licenses Closes; Winning Bidders Announced for Auction 73, Public Notice, DA-
08-595, Attachment A, Report No. AUC-08-73-I (Auction 73) (March 20, 2008).  The results for Upper 700 MHz 
Band C Block can be found on pp. 62-63.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
38transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
28.Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) - (1710–1755 MHz and 2110–2155 MHz bands 
(AWS-1); 1915–1920 MHz, 1995–2000 MHz, 2020–2025 MHz and 2175–2180 MHz bands (AWS-2); 
2155–2175 MHz band (AWS-3); 2000-2020 MHz and 2180-2200 MHz (AWS-4)).  Spectrum is made 
available and licensed in these bands for the provision of various wireless communications services.82  
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)83 is the closest industry with a SBA small 
business size standard applicable to these services.  The SBA small business size standard for this 
industry classifies a business as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.84  U.S. Census Bureau data for 
2017 show that there were 2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the entire year.85  Of this number, 
2,837 firms employed fewer than 250 employees.86  Thus, under the SBA size standard, the Commission 
estimates that a majority of licensees in this industry can be considered small.
29. According to Commission data as December 2021, there were approximately 4,472 
active AWS licenses.87  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to AWS involve 
eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the auction of licenses for these services.  For 
the auction of AWS licenses, the Commission defined a “small business” as an entity with average annual 
gross revenues for the preceding three years not exceeding $40 million, and a “very small business” as an 
entity with average annual gross revenues for the preceding three years not exceeding $15 million.88  
Pursuant to these definitions, 57 winning bidders claiming status as small or very small businesses won 
215 of 1,087 licenses.89  In the most recent auction of AWS licenses 15 of 37 bidders qualifying for status 
as small or very small businesses won licenses.90
30. In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as 
a general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
82 See 47 CFR § 27.1(b).
83 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
84 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
85 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
86 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
87 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 10, 2021, 
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service = AD, AH, AT, AW; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  
We note that the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or 
more licenses.
88 See 47 CFR §§ 27.1002, 27.1102, 27.1104, 27.1106.
89 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 66: Advanced Wireless 
Services (AWS-1), Summary, Spreadsheets, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/66/charts/66cls2.pdf. 
90 See Auction of Advanced Wireless Services (AWS-3) Licenses Closes; Winning Bidders Announced for Auction 
97, Public Notice, DA-15-131, Attachments A-B, (Auction No. 97) (January 30, 2015).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
39transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
31.Broadband Radio Service and Educational Broadband Service.  Broadband Radio 
Service systems, previously referred to as Multipoint Distribution Service (MDS) and Multichannel 
Multipoint Distribution Service (MMDS) systems, and “wireless cable,”91 transmit video programming to 
subscribers and provide two-way high speed data operations using the microwave frequencies of the 
Broadband Radio Service (BRS) and Educational Broadband Service (EBS) (previously referred to as the 
Instructional Television Fixed Service (ITFS)).92  Wireless cable operators that use spectrum in the BRS 
often supplemented with leased channels from the EBS, provide a competitive alternative to wired cable 
and other multichannel video programming distributors.  Wireless cable programming to subscribers 
resembles cable television, but instead of coaxial cable, wireless cable uses microwave channels.93
32. In light of the use of wireless frequencies by BRS and EBS services, the closest industry 
with a SBA small business size standard applicable to these services is Wireless Telecommunications 
Carriers (except Satellite).94  The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies a business 
as small if it has 1,500 or fewer employees.95  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 
2,893 firms that operated in this industry for the entire year.96  Of this number, 2,837 firms employed 
fewer than 250 employees.97  Thus under the SBA size standard, the Commission estimates that a 
majority of licensees in this industry can be considered small.
33. According to Commission data as December 2021, there were approximately 5,869 
active BRS and EBS licenses.98  The Commission’s small business size standards with respect to BRS 
involves eligibility for bidding credits and installment payments in the auction of licenses for these 
91 The use of the term "wireless cable" does not imply that it constitutes cable television for statutory or regulatory 
purposes.
92 See 47 CFR § 27.4; see also Amendment of Parts 21 and 74 of the Commission’s Rules with Regard to Filing 
Procedures in the Multipoint Distribution Service and in the Instructional Television Fixed Service and 
Implementation of Section 309(j) of the Communications Act—Competitive Bidding, Report and Order, 10 FCC Rcd 
9589, 9593, para. 7 (1995).
93 Generally, a wireless cable system may be described as a microwave station transmitting on a combination of 
BRS and EBS channels to numerous receivers with antennas, such as single-family residences, apartment 
complexes, hotels, educational institutions, business entities and governmental offices. The range of the transmission 
depends upon the transmitter power, the type of receiving antenna and the existence of a line-of-sight path between 
the transmitter or signal booster and the receiving antenna.
94 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517312 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except 
Satellite),” https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517312&year=2017&details=517312.
95 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517312.
96 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517312,  
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517312&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
97 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
98 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 10, 2021,  
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service =BR, ED; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note 
that the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more 
licenses.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
40services.  For the auction of BRS licenses, the Commission adopted criteria for three groups of small 
businesses.  A very small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, 
has average annual gross revenues exceed $3 million and did not exceed $15 million for the preceding 
three years, a small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has 
average gross revenues exceed $15 million and did not exceed $40 million for the preceding three years, 
and an entrepreneur is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross 
revenues not exceeding $3 million for the preceding three years.99 Of the ten winning bidders for BRS 
licenses, two bidders claiming the small business status won 4 licenses, one bidder claiming the very 
small business status won three licenses and two bidders claiming entrepreneur status won six licenses.100  
One of the winning bidders claiming a small business status classification in the BRS license auction has 
an active licenses as of December 2021.101
34. The Commission’s small business size standards for EBS define a small business as an 
entity that, together with its affiliates, its controlling interests and the affiliates of its controlling interests, 
has average gross revenues that are not more than $55 million for the preceding five (5) years, and a very 
small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates, its controlling interests and the affiliates of its 
controlling interests, has average gross revenues that are not more than $20 million for the preceding five 
(5) years.102  In frequency bands where licenses were subject to auction, the Commission notes that as a 
general matter, the number of winning bidders that qualify as small businesses at the close of an auction 
does not necessarily represent the number of small businesses currently in service.  Further, the 
Commission does not generally track subsequent business size unless, in the context of assignments or 
transfers, unjust enrichment issues are implicated.  Additionally, since the Commission does not collect 
data on the number of employees for licensees providing these services, at this time we are not able to 
estimate the number of licensees with active licenses that would qualify as small under the SBA’s small 
business size standard.
35.The Educational Broadcasting Services.   Cable-based educational broadcasting services 
fall under the broad category of the Wired Telecommunications Carriers industry.103 The Wired 
Telecommunications Carriers industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating and/or 
providing access to transmission facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease for the 
transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and video using wired telecommunications networks.104  
Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of technologies. 105  
Establishments in this industry use the wired telecommunications network facilities that they operate to 
99 See 47 CFR § 27.1218(a).
100 See Federal Communications Commission, Economics and Analytics, Auctions, Auction 86: Broadband Radio 
Service, Summary, Reports, All Bidders, 
https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/wireless/auctions/86/charts/86bidder.xls.
101 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 10, 2021,  
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service =BR; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
102 See 47 CFR § 27.1219(a).
103 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517311 Wired Telecommunications Carriers,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517311&year=2017&details=517311.  Examples of this category are:  
broadband Internet service providers (e.g., cable, DSL); local telephone carriers (wired); cable television distribution 
services; long-distance telephone carriers (wired); closed circuit television (CCTV) services; VoIP service providers, 
using owner operated wired telecommunications infrastructure; direct-to-home satellite system (DTH) services; 
telecommunications carriers (wired); satellite television distribution systems; and multichannel multipoint 
distribution services (MMDS).
104 Id.
105 Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
41provide a variety of services, such as wired telephony services, including VoIP services; wired (cable) 
audio and video programming distribution; and wired broadband Internet services. 106
36. The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies businesses having 1,500 
or fewer employees as small.107  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 3,054 firms in 
this industry that operated for the entire year.108  Of this total, 2,964 firms operated with fewer than 250 
employees.109 Thus, under this size standard, the majority of firms in this industry can be considered 
small.  Additionally, according to Commission data as of December 2021, there were 4,477 active EBS 
licenses.110  The Commission estimates that the majority of these licenses are held by non-profit 
educational institutions and school districts and are likely small entities.
37.Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment 
Manufacturing.  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing radio and 
television broadcast and wireless communications equipment.111  Examples of products made by these 
establishments are: transmitting and receiving antennas, cable television equipment, GPS equipment, 
pagers, cellular phones, mobile communications equipment, and radio and television studio and 
broadcasting equipment.112  The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies businesses 
having 1,250 employees or less as small.113  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 656 
firms in this industry that operated for the entire year.114  Of this number, 624 firms had fewer than 250 
employees.115  Thus, under the SBA size standard, the majority of firms in this industry can be considered 
small.
38.Software Publishers. This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in 
computer software publishing or publishing and reproduction.116  Establishments in this industry carry out 
operations necessary for producing and distributing computer software, such as designing, providing 
106 Id.
107 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517311.
108 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Employment Size of 
Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517311, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517311&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
109 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
110 Based on a FCC Universal Licensing System search on December 17, 2021.  
https://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/searchAdvanced.jsp.  Search parameters: Service Group = All, “Match 
only the following radio service(s)”, Radio Service =ED; Authorization Type = All; Status = Active.  We note that 
the number of active licenses does not equate to the number of licensees.  A licensee can have one or more licenses.
111 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “334220 Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless 
Communications Equipment Manufacturing,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=334220&year=2017&details=334220.
112 Id.
113 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 334220.
114 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Employment Size of Firms for the U.S.: 
2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 334220, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=334220&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
115 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
116 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “511210 Software Publishers,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=511210&year=2017&details=511210.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
42documentation, assisting in installation, and providing support services to software purchasers.117  These 
establishments may design, develop, and publish, or publish only.118  The SBA small business size 
standard for this industry classifies businesses having annual receipts of $41.5 million or less as small.119  
U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 indicate that 7,842 firms in this industry operated for the entire year. 120  
Of this number 7,226 firms had revenue of less than $25 million.121  Based on this data, we conclude that 
a majority of firms in this industry are small.
39.Noncommercial Educational (NCE) and Public Broadcast Stations.  Noncommercial 
educational broadcast stations and public broadcast stations are television or radio broadcast stations 
which under the Commission's rules are eligible to be licensed by the Commission as a noncommercial 
educational radio or television broadcast station and are owned and operated by a public agency or 
nonprofit private foundation, corporation, or association; or are owned and operated by a municipality 
which transmits only noncommercial programs for education purposes.
40. The SBA small business size standards and U.S. Census Bureau data classify radio 
stations122 and television broadcasting123 separately and both categories may include both noncommercial 
and commercial stations.  The SBA small business size standard for both radio stations and television 
broadcasting classify firms having $41.5 million or less in annual receipts as small.124  For Radio Stations, 
U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that 1,879 of the 2,963 firms that operated during that year had 
revenue of less than $25 million per year.125  For Television Broadcasting, U.S. Census Bureau data for 
2017 show that 657 of the 744 firms that operated for the entire year had revenue of less than 
$25,000,000.126  While the U.S. Census Bureau data does not indicate the number of non-commercial 
117 Id.
118 Id.
119 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 511210.
120 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 511210, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=511210&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
121 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and 
revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
122 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515112 Radio Stations,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515112&year=2017&details=515112.
123 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515120 Television Broadcasting,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515120&year=2017&details=515120.
124 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 515112 (Radio Stations); NAICS Code 515120 (Television Broadcasting).
125 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515112,
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515112&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms 
that meet the SBA size standard.  We note that the U.S. Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms 
that operated for the entire year.  We also note that the U.S. Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of 
firms that operated with sales/value of shipments/revenue in the individual categories for less than $100,000, and 
$100,000 to $249,999 to avoid disclosing data for individual companies (see Cell Notes for the sales/value of 
shipments/revenue in these categories).  Therefore, the number of firms with revenue that meet the SBA size 
standard would be higher that noted herein.  We further note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the 
terms receipts and revenues are used interchangeably, see 
https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
126 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
(continued….)Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
43stations, we estimate that under the applicable SBA size standard the majority of noncommercial 
educational broadcast stations and public broadcast stations are small entities.
41. According to Commission data as of March 31, 2022, there were 4,503 licensed 
noncommercial educational radio and television stations 127  In addition, the Commission estimates as of 
March 31, 2022, there were 384 licensed noncommercial educational (NCE) television stations, 383 Class 
A TV stations, 1,840 LPTV stations and 3,231 TV translator stations.128  The Commission does not 
compile and otherwise does not have access to financial information for these stations that permit it to 
determine how many stations qualify as small entities under the SBA small business size standards.  
However, given the nature of these services, we will presume that all noncommercial educational and 
public broadcast stations qualify as small entities under the above SBA small business size standards.
42.Radio Stations.   This industry is comprised of “establishments primarily engaged in 
broadcasting aural programs by radio to the public.”129  Programming may originate in their own studio, 
from an affiliated network, or from external sources.130  The SBA small business size standard for this 
industry classifies firms having $41.5 million or less in annual receipts as small.131  U.S. Census Bureau 
data for 2017 show that 2,963 firms operated in this industry during that year.132  Of this number, 1,879 
firms operated with revenue of less than $25 million per year.133  Based on this data and the SBA’s small 
business size standard, we estimate a majority of such entities are small entities.
43. The Commission estimates that as of March 31, 2022, there were 4,508 licensed 
commercial AM radio stations and 6,763 licensed commercial FM radio stations, for a combined total of 
11,271 commercial radio stations.134  Of this total, 11,269 stations (or 99.98 %) had revenues of $41.5 
million or less in 2021, according to Commission staff review of the BIA Kelsey Inc. Media Access Pro 
Database (BIA) on June 1, 2022, and therefore these licensees qualify as small entities under the SBA 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515120, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515120&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms 
that meet the SBA size standard.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts 
and revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
127 Broadcast Station Totals as of March 31, 2022, Public Notice, DA 22-365 (rel. April 5, 2022) (March 2022 
Broadcast Station Totals PN), https://www.fcc.gov/document/broadcast-station-totals-march-31-2022.
128 Id.
129 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515112 Radio Stations,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515112&year=2017&details=515112.
130 Id.
131 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 515112.
132 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515112,
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515112&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.  We note that the US Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that operated for the 
entire year.
133 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We note that the U.S. Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that 
operated with sales/value of shipments/revenue in the individual categories for less than $100,000, and $100,000 to 
$249,999 to avoid disclosing data for individual companies (see Cell Notes for the sales/value of shipments/revenue 
in these categories).  Therefore, the number of firms with revenue that meet the SBA size standard would be higher 
that noted herein.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and revenues 
are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
134 Broadcast Station Totals as of March 31, 2022, Public Notice, DA 22-365 (rel. April 5, 2022) (March 2022 
Broadcast Station Totals PN), https://www.fcc.gov/document/broadcast-station-totals-march-31-2022.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
44definition.  In addition, the Commission estimates that as of March 31, 2022, there were 4,119 licensed 
noncommercial (NCE) FM radio stations, 2,049 low power FM (LPFM) stations, and 8,919 FM 
translators and boosters.135  The Commission however does not compile, and otherwise does not have 
access to financial information for these radio stations that would permit it to determine how many of 
these stations qualify as small entities under the SBA small business size standard.  Nevertheless, given 
the SBA’s large annual receipts threshold for this industry and the nature of these radio station licensees, 
we presume that all of these entities qualify as small entities under the above SBA small business size 
standard.
44.  We note, however, that in assessing whether a business concern qualifies as “small” 
under the above definition, business (control) affiliations136 must be included.  Our estimate, therefore, 
likely overstates the number of small entities that might be affected by our action, because the revenue 
figure on which it is based does not include or aggregate revenues from affiliated companies.  In addition, 
another element of the definition of “small business” requires that an entity not be dominant in its field of 
operation.  We are unable at this time to define or quantify the criteria that would establish whether a 
specific radio or television broadcast station is dominant in its field of operation.  Accordingly, the 
estimate of small businesses to which the rules may apply does not exclude any radio or television station 
from the definition of a small business on this basis and is therefore possibly over-inclusive.  An 
additional element of the definition of “small business” is that the entity must be independently owned 
and operated.  Because it is difficult to assess these criteria in the context of media entities, the estimate of 
small businesses to which the rules may apply does not exclude any radio or television station from the 
definition of a small business on this basis and similarly may be over-inclusive.
45.FM Translator Stations and Low-Power FM Stations.  FM translators and Low Power 
FM Stations are classified in the industry for Radio Stations.137  The Radio Stations industry comprises 
establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting aural programs by radio to the public.138  Programming 
may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.139  The SBA small 
business size standard for this industry classifies firms having $41.5 million or less in annual receipts as 
small.140  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that 2,963 firms operated during that year.141  Of that 
number, 1,879 firms operated with revenue of less than $25 million per year.142   Therefore, based on the 
135 Id.
136 “[Business concerns] are affiliates of each other when one concern controls or has the power to control the other 
or a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both.” 13 CFR § 21.103(a)(1).
137 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515112 Radio Stations,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515112&year=2017&details=515112.
138 Id.
139 Id.
140 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 515112.
141 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515112,
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515112&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.  We note that the US Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that operated for the 
entire year.
142 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We note that the U.S. Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that 
operated with sales/value of shipments/revenue in the individual categories for less than $100,000, and $100,000 to 
$249,999 to avoid disclosing data for individual companies (see Cell Notes for the sales/value of shipments/revenue 
in these categories).  Therefore, the number of firms with annual receipts that meet the SBA size standard would be 
higher that noted herein. We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and 
revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
45SBA’s size standard we conclude that the majority of FM Translator stations and Low Power FM Stations 
are small.  Additionally, according to Commission data, as of March 31, 2022, there were 8,919 FM 
Translator Stations and 2,049 Low Power FM licensed broadcast stations.143  The Commission however 
does not compile and otherwise does not have access to information on the revenue of these stations that 
would permit it to determine how many of the stations would qualify as small entities.  For purposes of 
this regulatory flexibility analysis, we presume the majority of these stations are small entities.
46.Television Broadcasting.  This industry is comprised of “establishments primarily 
engaged in broadcasting images together with sound.”144  These establishments operate television 
broadcast studios and facilities for the programming and transmission of programs to the public.145  These 
establishments also produce or transmit visual programming to affiliated broadcast television stations, 
which in turn broadcast the programs to the public on a predetermined schedule.  Programming may 
originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.  The SBA small 
business size standard for this industry classifies businesses having $41.5 million or less in annual 
receipts as small.146 2017 U.S. Census Bureau data indicate that 744 firms in this industry operated for the 
entire year.147  Of that number, 657 firms had revenue of less than $25,000,000.148  Based on this data we 
estimate that the majority of television broadcasters are small entities under the SBA small business size 
standard.
47. The Commission estimates that as of March 31, 2022, there were 1,373 licensed 
commercial television stations.149  Of this total, 1,280 stations (or 93.2%) had revenues of $41.5 million 
or less in 2021, according to Commission staff review of the BIA Kelsey Inc. Media Access Pro 
Television Database (BIA) on June 1, 2022, and therefore these licensees qualify as small entities under 
the SBA definition.  In addition, the Commission estimates as of March 31, 2022, there were 384 licensed 
noncommercial educational (NCE) television stations, 383 Class A TV stations, 1,840 LPTV stations and 
3,231 TV translator stations.150  The Commission however does not compile, and otherwise does not have 
access to financial information for these television broadcast stations that would permit it to determine 
how many of these stations qualify as small entities under the SBA small business size standard.  
Nevertheless, given the SBA’s large annual receipts threshold for this industry and the nature of these 
television station licensees, we presume that all of these entities qualify as small entities under the above 
SBA small business size standard.
48.Cable and Other Subscription Programming.  The U.S. Census Bureau defines this 
industry as establishments primarily engaged in operating studios and facilities for the broadcasting of 
143 Broadcast Station Totals as of March 31, 2022, Public Notice, DA 22-365 (rel. April 5, 2022) (March 2022 
Broadcast Station Totals PN), https://www.fcc.gov/document/broadcast-station-totals-march-31-2022.
144 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515120 Television Broadcasting,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515120&year=2017&details=515120.
145 Id.
146 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 515120.
147 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515120, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515120&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
148 Id. The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and 
revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
149 Broadcast Station Totals as of March 31, 2022, Public Notice, DA 22-365 (rel. April 5, 2022) (March 2022 
Broadcast Station Totals PN), https://www.fcc.gov/document/broadcast-station-totals-march-31-2022. 
150 Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
46programs on a subscription or fee basis.151  The broadcast programming is typically narrowcast in nature 
(e.g., limited format, such as news, sports, education, or youth-oriented).  These establishments produce 
programming in their own facilities or acquire programming from external sources.152 The programming 
material is usually delivered to a third party, such as cable systems or direct-to-home satellite systems, for 
transmission to viewers.153  The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies firms with 
annual receipts less than $41.5 million as small.154  Based on U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017, 378 firms 
operated in this industry during that year.155  Of that number, 149 firms operated with revenue of less than 
$25 million a year and 44 firms operated with revenue of $25 million or more.156    Based on this data, the 
Commission estimates that the majority of firms operating in this industry are small.
49.Cable System Operators (Rate Regulation Standard).  The Commission has developed its 
own small business size standard for the purpose of cable rate regulation.  Under the Commission’s rules, 
a “small cable company” is one serving 400,000 or fewer subscribers nationwide.157  Based on industry 
data, there are about 420 cable companies in the U.S.158  Of these, only seven have more than 400,000 
subscribers.159  In addition, under the Commission’s rules, a “small system” is a cable system serving 
15,000 or fewer subscribers.160  Based on industry data, there are about 4,139 cable systems (headends) in 
the U.S.161  Of these, about 639 have more than 15,000 subscribers.162  Accordingly, the Commission 
estimates that the majority of cable companies and cable systems are small.
50.Cable System Operators (Telecom Act Standard).  The Communications Act of 1934, as 
amended, contains a size standard for a “small cable operator,” which is “a cable operator that, directly or 
through an affiliate, serves in the aggregate fewer than one percent of all subscribers in the United States 
and is not affiliated with any entity or entities whose gross annual revenues in the aggregate exceed 
151 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “515210 Cable and Other Subscription Programming,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=515210&year=2017&details=515210.
152 Id.
153 Id.
154 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 515210.
155 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 515210, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=515210&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.  The US Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that operated for the entire year to 
avoid disclosing data for individual companies (see Cell Notes for this category).
156 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard. We note that the U.S. Census Bureau withheld publication of the number of firms that 
operated with sales/value of shipments/revenue in all categories of revenue less than $500,000 to avoid disclosing 
data for individual companies (see Cell Notes for the sales/value of shipments/revenue in these categories).  
Therefore, the number of firms with revenue that meet the SBA size standard would be higher than noted herein.  
We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and revenues are used 
interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
157 47 CFR § 76.901(d).
158 S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ Pro, U.S. MediaCensus, Operator Subscribers by Geography 
(last visited May 26, 2022).
159 S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ Pro, Top Cable MSOs 12/21Q (last visited May 26, 2022); S&P 
Global Market Intelligence, Multichannel Video Subscriptions, Top 10 (April 2022).
160 47 CFR § 76.901(c).
161 S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ Pro, U.S. MediaCensus, Operator Subscribers by Geography 
(last visited May 26, 2022).
162 S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ Pro, Top Cable MSOs 12/21Q (last visited May 26, 2022).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
47$250,000,000.”163  For purposes of the Telecom Act Standard, the Commission determined that a cable 
system operator that serves fewer than 677,000 subscribers, either directly or through affiliates, will meet 
the definition of a small cable operator based on the cable subscriber count established in a 2001 Public 
Notice.164  Based on industry data, only six cable system operators have more than 677,000 subscribers.165  
Accordingly, the Commission estimates that the majority of cable system operators are small under this 
size standard.  We note however, that the Commission neither requests nor collects information on 
whether cable system operators are affiliated with entities whose gross annual revenues exceed $250 
million.166  Therefore, we are unable at this time to estimate with greater precision the number of cable 
system operators that would qualify as small cable operators under the definition in the Communications 
Act.
51.Satellite Telecommunications.  This industry comprises firms “primarily engaged in 
providing telecommunications services to other establishments in the telecommunications and 
broadcasting industries by forwarding and receiving communications signals via a system of satellites or 
reselling satellite telecommunications.”167  Satellite telecommunications service providers include satellite 
and earth station operators. The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies a business 
with $35 million or less in annual receipts as small.168  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that 275 
firms in this industry operated for the entire year.169  Of this number, 242 firms had revenue of less than 
$25 million.170 Additionally, based on Commission data in the 2021 Universal Service Monitoring Report, 
as of December 31, 2020, there were 71 providers that reported they were engaged in the provision of 
satellite telecommunications services.171  Of these providers, the Commission estimates that 
approximately 48 providers have 1,500 or fewer employees.172  Consequently using the SBA’s small 
163 47 U.S.C. § 543(m)(2).
164 FCC Announces New Subscriber Count for the Definition of Small Cable Operator, Public Notice, 16 FCC Rcd 
2225 (CSB 2001) (2001 Subscriber Count PN).  In this Public Notice, the Commission determined that there were 
approximately 67.7 million cable subscribers in the United States at that time using the most reliable source publicly 
available.  Id.  We recognize that the number of cable subscribers changed since then and that the Commission has 
recently estimated the number of cable subscribers to be approximately 58.1 million.  See Communications 
Marketplace Report, GN Docket No. 20-60, 2020 Communications Marketplace Report, 36 FCC Rcd 2945, 3049, 
para. 156 (2020) (2020 Communications Marketplace Report).  However, because the Commission has not issued a 
public notice subsequent to the 2001 Subscriber Count PN, the Commission still relies on the subscriber count 
threshold established by the 2001 Subscriber Count PN for purposes of this rule.  See 47 CFR § 76.901(e)(1).
165 S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ Pro, Top Cable MSOs 12/21Q (last visited May 26, 2022); S&P 
Global Market Intelligence, Multichannel Video Subscriptions, Top 10 (April 2022).
166 The Commission does receive such information on a case-by-case basis if a cable operator appeals a local 
franchise authority’s finding that the operator does not qualify as a small cable operator pursuant to § 76.901(e) of 
the Commission’s rules.  See 47 CFR § 76.910(b).
167 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517410 Satellite Telecommunications,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517410&year=2017&details=517410.
168 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517410.
169 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 517410, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517410&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
170 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and 
revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
171 Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service, Universal Service Monitoring Report at 26, Table 1.12 (2021),
https://docs.fcc.gov/pubId.lic/attachments/DOC-379181A1.pdf.
172 Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
48business size standard, a little more than of these providers can be considered small entities.
52.All Other Telecommunications.  This industry is comprised of establishments primarily 
engaged in providing specialized telecommunications services, such as satellite tracking, communications 
telemetry, and radar station operation.173  This industry also includes establishments primarily engaged in 
providing satellite terminal stations and associated facilities connected with one or more terrestrial 
systems and capable of transmitting telecommunications to, and receiving telecommunications from, 
satellite systems.174  Providers of Internet services (e.g. dial-up ISPs) or voice over Internet protocol 
(VoIP) services, via client-supplied telecommunications connections are also included in this industry.175  
The SBA small business size standard for this industry classifies firms with annual receipts of $35 million 
or less as small.176  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that there were 1,079 firms in this industry 
that operated for the entire year.177  Of those firms, 1,039 had revenue of less than $25 million.178  Based 
on this data, the Commission estimates that the majority of “All Other Telecommunications” firms can be 
considered small.
53.Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) Service.  DBS service is a nationally distributed 
subscription service that delivers video and audio programming via satellite to a small parabolic “dish” 
antenna at the subscriber’s location.  DBS is included in the Wired Telecommunications Carriers industry 
which comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating and/or providing access to transmission 
facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and 
video using wired telecommunications networks.179  Transmission facilities may be based on a single 
technology or combination of technologies.180  Establishments in this industry use the wired 
telecommunications network facilities that they operate to provide a variety of services, such as wired 
telephony services, including VoIP services, wired (cable) audio and video programming distribution; and 
wired broadband internet services.181  By exception, establishments providing satellite television 
distribution services using facilities and infrastructure that they operate are included in this industry.182
54. The SBA small business size standard for Wired Telecommunications Carriers classifies 
173 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517919 All Other Telecommunications,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517919&year=2017&details=517919.
174 Id.
175 Id.
176 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517919.
177 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Sales, Value of 
Shipments, or Revenue Size of Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEREVFIRM, NAICS Code 517919, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517919&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEREVFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
178 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.  We also note that according to the U.S. Census Bureau glossary, the terms receipts and 
revenues are used interchangeably, see https://www.census.gov/glossary/#term_ReceiptsRevenueServices.
179 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 NAICS Definition, “517311 Wired Telecommunications Carriers,” 
https://www.census.gov/naics/?input=517311&year=2017&details=517311.
180 Id.
181 See id.  Included in this industry are: broadband Internet service providers (e.g., cable, DSL); local telephone 
carriers (wired); cable television distribution services; long-distance telephone carriers (wired); closed-circuit 
television (CCTV) services; VoIP service providers, using own operated wired telecommunications infrastructure; 
direct-to-home satellite system (DTH) services; telecommunications carriers (wired); satellite television distribution 
systems; and multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS).
182 Id.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
49firms having 1,500 or fewer employees as small.183  U.S. Census Bureau data for 2017 show that 3,054 
firms operated in this industry for the entire year.184  Of this number, 2,964 firms operated with fewer than 
250 employees.185  Based on this data, the majority of firms in this industry can be considered small under 
the SBA small business size standard.  According to Commission data however, only two entities provide 
DBS service - DIRECTV (owned by AT&T) and DISH Network, which require a great deal of capital for 
operation.186  DIRECTV and DISH Network both exceed the SBA size standard for classification as a 
small business.  Therefore, we must conclude based on internally developed Commission data, in general 
DBS service is provided only by large firms.
D. Description of Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance 
Requirements for Small Entities
55. We expect the actions proposed in the Notice, if adopted, will impose additional 
reporting, recordkeeping and/or other compliance obligations on small as well as other entities who are 
EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers.  More specifically, if adopted, EAS Participants and 
Participating CMS Providers would be required to annually certify to creating, updating, and 
implementing a cybersecurity risk management plan to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of their respective alerting systems.   The cybersecurity risk management plan must contain 
among other things, a description of how organizational resources are employed to ensure the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the alerting system.  Further, any incident involving the 
unauthorized access to EAS equipment, communications systems, or services, regardless of whether the 
event resulted in the transmission of a false alert would require EAS Participants to report the 
unauthorized access to the Commission within 72 hours of when the EAS Participant knew or should 
have known that an incident has occurred.  The Commission also seeks comment on whether and how to 
strengthen the operational readiness of the EAS.
56. In assessing the cost of compliance with our proposed rule to create a cybersecurity risk 
management plan, we estimate the cost for each small EAS Participant187 and each Participating CMS 
Providers188 to be approximately $820.  These costs are based on 10 hours of labor at $82 an hour and 
apply to all EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers not just small entities.  We anticipate 
however, that many small EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers will not require 10 hours to 
develop or update a cybersecurity risk management plan tailored to the size of their organization.  The 
cost for reporting an unauthorized access incident we believe would be similar to the cost of reporting a 
false alert, which the Commission has estimated to have a total cost of $11,600 per year across 290 EAS 
183 See 13 CFR § 121.201, NAICS Code 517311.
184 See U.S. Census Bureau, 2017 Economic Census of the United States, Selected Sectors: Employment Size of 
Firms for the U.S.: 2017, Table ID: EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM, NAICS Code 517311, 
https://data.census.gov/cedsci/table?y=2017&n=517311&tid=ECNSIZE2017.EC1700SIZEEMPFIRM&hidePrevie
w=false.
185 Id.  The available U.S. Census Bureau data does not provide a more precise estimate of the number of firms that 
meet the SBA size standard.
186 See Annual Assessment of the Status of Competition in the Market for the Delivery of Video Programming, 
Eighteenth Report, Table III.A.5, 32 FCC Rcd 568, 595 (Jan. 17, 2017).
187 We believe that the overall cost for all 25,644 EAS Participants, not just small participants, to comply with the 
proposed certification requirement entails 10 hours of labor that is compensated at $90 per hour will be $21,028,080.
188  We believe that the overall cost for all 76 Participating CMS Providers, not just small providers, to comply with 
the proposed certification requirement entails 10 hours of labor that is compensated at $82 per hour will be 62,320.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
50Participants.189  This total cost when apportioned to each EAS Participant comes out to approximately $40 
per EAS Participant.190
57. We estimate a $9.2 million one-time cost for all Participating CMS Providers, not just 
small providers, to update the WEA standards and software necessary to comply with our proposed rule 
that Participating CMS Providers transmit sufficient authentication information to allow mobile devices 
to present WEA alerts only if they come from valid base stations.  This figure consists of approximately a 
$500,000 cost to update applicable WEA standards and approximately an $8.7 million cost to update 
applicable software.  We quantify the cost of modifying standards as the annual compensation for 30 
network engineers compensated at the national average for their field ($85,816/year; $41.26/hour), plus 
annual benefits ($26,775/year; 12.87/hour) working for the amount of time that it takes to develop a 
standard (one hour every other week for one year, 26 hours) for 12 distinct standards.  We quantify the 
cost of modifying software as the annual compensation for a software engineer compensated at the 
national average for their field ($86,998/year), plus annual benefits ($27,143/year) working for the 
amount of time that it takes to develop software (one year) at each of the 76 CMS Providers that 
participate in WEA.
58. At this time the Commission cannot quantify the cost of compliance for small entities to 
comply with the other proposals or approaches on which it seeks comment in the Notice.  We believe that 
the modifications to improve and enhance the security of the EAS that we discuss in the Notice are the 
most efficient and least burdensome approach and do not believe small entities will have to hire 
professionals to meet the requirements discussed in the Notice, if adopted.  To help the Commission more 
fully evaluate the cost of compliance for small entities should our proposals be adopted, in the Notice, we 
request comments on the cost implications of our proposals and ask whether there are more efficient and 
less burdensome alternatives (including cost estimates) for the Commission to consider.  We expect the 
information we receive in comments including cost and benefit analyses, will help the Commission 
identify and evaluate relevant matters for small entities, including compliance costs and other burdens 
that may result from the proposals and inquiries we make in the Notice.
E. Steps Taken to Minimize the Significant Economic Impact on Small Entities, and 
Significant Alternatives Considered
59. The RFA requires an agency to describe any significant, specifically small business 
alternatives that it has considered in reaching its proposed approach, which may include the following 
four alternatives (among others):  “(1) the establishment of differing compliance or reporting 
requirements or timetables that take into account the resources available to small entities; (2) the 
clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance or reporting requirements under the rule for 
such small entities; (3) the use of performance, rather than design, standards; and (4) and exemption from 
coverage of the rule, or any part thereof, for such small entities.”191
60. The Commission has taken steps to minimize the impact of the proposals in the Notice as 
a general matter, and specifically targeting small entities, has sought comment on the extent to which we 
can limit the overall economic impact of these proposed requirements if we provide increased flexibility 
for businesses classified as small under the SBA small business size standard.  Below we discuss actions 
taken and alternatives considered by the Commission for the rules proposed promoting the operational 
readiness of EAS equipment, improving awareness of unauthorized access to EAS equipment, 
communications systems, and services, and requiring the development, implementation, and certification 
189 Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, Wireless Emergency 
Alerts, PS Docket Nos. 15-94 and 15-91, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 33 FCC 
Rcd 7086, 7102, para. 38 (2018) This estimates the cost of reporting false alerts to be $11,600 per year based on an 
average of 290 EAS participants filing two false alerts per year.
190 Id.  The total cost of $11,600 divided by 290 EAS Participants equals $40 per participant.
191 5 U.S.C. § 603(c)(1)-(4).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
51of a cybersecurity risk management plan.
61. To further the Commission’s objectives to promote EAS equipment operational 
readiness, in the Notice we seek comment on whether to require EAS Participants to repair EAS 
equipment with prompt and reasonable diligence, on whether the EAS Participants should notify the 
Commission of the status of their repairs, and, if so, on the timing, content, and means of that notification.
62. We seek comment on whether a compliance timeframe of 30 days from publication in the 
Federal Register of notice that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has completed its review of 
the modified information collection to improve the Commission’s visibility into the repair or replacement 
of non-operational EAS equipment would not impose a burden on small entities.  Small and other EAS 
Participants currently make entries in their broadcast station logs and cable system records showing the 
date and time equipment was removed and restored to service, and therefore already have processes and 
procedures in place to record information about the operational status of their EAS equipment in station 
logs that could be utilized for the proposed notification requirement.  In the event that the Commission 
were to alternatively require this notification to be provided through NORS, the requirement would 
become effective within 30 days from publication in the Federal Register of notice that the OMB has 
approved the modified information collection or upon publication in the Federal Register of a Public 
Notice announcing that NORS is technically capable of receiving such notifications, whichever is later.  
Similarly, this requirement should not impose a burden on small entities for the reason stated above and 
since EAS Participants are already likely to be using NORS.
63. Our approach to improving awareness of unauthorized access to EAS equipment, 
communications systems, and services relies on our belief that significant public safety benefits will 
accrue if EAS Participants were required to provide the Commission with notification that their EAS 
equipment, communications systems, and services have been accessed without authorization, even in the 
absence of a subsequent transmission of a false alert.  The reporting requirement we proposed in the 
Notice requiring EAS Participants to provide notification to the Commission via NORS within 72 hours 
of when an EAS Participant knew or should have known that an incident has occurred should result in 
low marginal costs for small and other EAS participants since our requirement parallels the reporting 
obligations EAS Participants may have to other government agencies that require critical infrastructure 
sector entities to report cyber incidents.192  This would allow the requirement to be satisfied by reporting 
substantially similar information to another federal agency in a similar timeframe.193  We believe the cost 
to report unauthorized access is comparable to the cost of reporting false alerts which further supports our 
belief that these costs will be relatively low for small and other EAS Participants.194  In the Notice we 
have requested comments and cost and benefit analyses on our proposal and beliefs.  In addition, we have 
requested alternative proposals (accompanied by cost analyses) for unauthorized access reporting 
requirements that would be less costly for small and other EAS Participants while producing similar or 
greater benefits.
64. The requirement for EAS Participants to report any incident of unauthorized access of its 
EAS equipment, communications systems, or services would be effective 60 days from publication in the 
Federal Register of notice that the OMB has approved the modified information collection.  Since we 
consider the requirement to report unauthorized access similar to the Commission’s false alert reporting 
requirement, there are likely to be compliance synergies for small and other EAS Participants, and less of 
a burden than there would be in the absence of the similarity.  We therefore seek comment in the Notice 
on whether an EAS Participant’s process for ascertaining whether an incident of unauthorized access of 
192 See 6 U.S.C. § 681b(c).  CISA is required by the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022 
(CIRCIA) to adopt rules requiring critical infrastructure sector entities to report cyber incidents.
193 See id. § 681b(a)(5)(B).
194 The total estimated cost of reporting false alerts is $11,600 per year based on an average of 290 EAS participants 
filing two false alerts per year.  The total cost of $11,600 divided by 290 EAS Participants equals $40 per 
participant.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
52its EAS equipment, communications systems, or services has occurred and reporting it to the Commission 
entails a level of effort comparable to compliance with the Commission’s false alert reporting 
requirement.
65. To further explore the impact of the cybersecurity risk management plan requirement 
proposed in the Notice which requires small and other EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers 
to create, implement, and annually update a cybersecurity risk management plan and submit an annual 
certification attesting to compliance with requirement, Commission seeks comment on steps that it could 
take to limit various burdens.  In particular, the Commission requests comment on whether the steps that 
it describes for EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers to submit their risk management plans 
are the most efficient way to implement a certification requirement.  In the Notice, we propose to afford 
each EAS Participant and Participating CMS Provider the flexibility to include content in its plan that is 
tailored to its organization, provided that the plan demonstrates how the EAS Participant or Participating 
CMS Provider identifies the cyber risks that they face, the controls they use to mitigate those risks, and 
how they ensure that these controls are applied effectively to their operations.
66. The Commission also proposes to require that each plan include security controls 
sufficient to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) of the EAS.  While we believe 
there are numerous methods to satisfy this aspect of the requirement, we have proposed to allow the 
requirement to be satisfied by providing evidence of the successful implementation of an established set 
of cybersecurity best practices, such as applicable Center for Internet Security (CIS) Critical Security 
Controls195 or the Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Cybersecurity Baseline.196  We 
believe adopting this flexible approach will allow EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers to 
develop a plan that is appropriate for their organization’s size and available resources, while still ensuring 
that the plan results in ongoing and material improvements in EAS and WEA security.  The Commission 
anticipates that this flexibility will reduce the costs imposed on small business EAS Participants and 
Participating CMS Providers, which will have different cybersecurity needs than larger EAS Participants 
and Participating CMS Providers, respectively. We do note, however, that to ensure that every EAS 
Participant implements a baseline of security controls, the Commission proposes to require that each plan 
include certain security measures:  changing default passwords prior to operation, installing security 
updates in a timely manner, securing equipment behind properly configured firewalls or using other 
segmentation practices, requiring multifactor authentication where applicable, addressing the replacement 
of end-of-life equipment, and wiping, clearing, or encrypting user information before disposing of old 
devices.
67. The Commission proposes to require compliance with the requirement to implement a 
cybersecurity risk management plan and certification within twelve months of the publication in the 
Federal Register of notice that the OMB has approved the modified information collection.  We 
recognize that larger EAS Participants are likely to already have cybersecurity risk management plans in 
place. We ask whether we should allow small entities a two-year timeframe to implement this 
requirement.  The two-year timeframe should provide sufficient time for small EAS Participants and 
small Participating CMS Providers that do not already have a risk management plan in place to create 
one.  The timeframe would also be sufficient to prepare their organizations to manage security and 
privacy risks, categorize their systems and the information being processed, stored, and transmitted, and 
select controls to protect their systems.  Further, a two-year timeframe would provide time for these 
195 See Center for Internet Security, Critical Security Controls version 8, https://www.cisecurity.org/controls (last 
visited Aug 9, 2022) (CIS Critical Security Controls) (providing security controls grouped by priority and feasibility 
for different sizes and resources of businesses in Implementation Groups).
196 Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, Cross-Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals and Objectives, 
https://www.cisa.gov/cpgs (last visited Aug. 5, 2020); Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, Cross-
Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals (CPGs) Common Baseline: Controls List (Draft), 
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Common_Baseline_v2_Controls_List_508c.pdf (last visited 
Aug. 5, 2020).Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
53entities to implement the security controls that the plan describes, assess whether the controls are in place, 
operating as intended, and producing the desired results, appoint a senior official to authorize the system, 
and develop mechanisms to continuously monitor control implementation and risks to the system.
68. In the Notice, the Commission identifies alternative approaches on several matters that 
might minimize the economic impact for small entities.  For example, the Commission requests 
alternatives to providing a second notification to the Commission once repairs of EAS equipment have 
been completed, and the EAS Participant’s EAS systems have been tested and determined to once again 
be fully functional.  The Commission seeks comment on potential alternatives to, and additional aspects 
of, the discussed approach, as well as their accompanying costs and benefits.  The Commission 
recommends that EAS Participants file the required notifications regarding EAS equipment failures and 
repairs in the NORS database, but requests comment on other means EAS Participants could use to 
submit the notifications such as via email to a designated e-mail address.
69. The Commission expects to more fully consider the economic impact and alternatives for 
small entities following the review of comments filed in response to the Notice, including costs and 
benefits analyses.  Having data on the costs and economic impacts of proposals and approaches will allow 
the Commission to better evaluate options and alternatives for minimization of any significant economic 
impact on small entities as a result of the proposals and approaches raised in the Notice.  The 
Commission’s evaluation of this information will shape the final alternatives it considers to minimize any 
significant economic impact that may occur on small entities, the final conclusions it reaches, and any 
final rules it promulgates in this proceeding.
F. Federal Rules that May Duplicate, Overlap, or Conflict with the Proposed Rules
70. None.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
54STATEMENT OF
CHAIRWOMAN JESSICA ROSENWORCEL
Re:Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert 
System, PS Docket No. 15-94; Wireless Emergency Alerts, PS Docket No. 15-91; Protecting the 
Nation’s Communications Systems from Cybersecurity Threats, PS Docket No. 22-329; Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (October 27, 2022)
October is Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  It’s an opportunity to recognize the importance of 
cybersecurity, take action to protect ourselves, and raise awareness about the steps we can take to stay 
safe online.  This year’s theme, “See Yourself in Cyber,” emphasizes that cybersecurity is an issue for 
everyone, everywhere.  That includes the Federal Communications Commission—where the work we are 
doing puts network security front and center.
We demonstrate that today with a rulemaking that would require Emergency Alert System and 
Wireless Emergency Alert participants to have a cybersecurity risk management plan in place and to 
ensure they have installed the most recent security patches.  We then seek comment on other ways to 
improve the operational readiness of these systems, including reporting breaches to the agency.  This 
effort will help ensure the function of these essential systems in emergencies and that the public can trust 
the warnings they receive.  This is important because the Department of Homeland Security recently 
determined that some of this alerting infrastructure is susceptible to serious security vulnerabilities.  
While some patches have been released to fix these flaws, not everyone has installed them.  We are 
committed to fixing that here and now.
This month—again, Cybersecurity Awareness Month—I also shared with my colleagues a 
proposal that would update our equipment authorization procedures to prohibit the sale of 
telecommunications and video surveillance equipment from five Chinese vendors that could pose a 
national security risk.  Last week, I joined Deputy National Security Advisor Anne Neuberger at a White 
House workshop to advance cybersecurity for the Internet of Things.  Last week I also announced a first-
of-its-kind settlement against Truphone that will require the company to divest its unvetted Russian 
ownership, pay a civil penalty, and put in place new security procedures to vet any new ownership 
through the Office of Foreign Asset Control at the Treasury Department.
These efforts follow a series of other initiatives to keep our networks secure.  We started by 
making our supply chains more transparent, by publishing the first-ever list of communications 
equipment and services that pose an unacceptable risk to national security.  Since then, we’ve updated 
that list to add equipment and services from five additional entities.  We are removing insecure equipment 
from our universal service programs and from our networks through the Secure and Trusted 
Communications Networks Act Reimbursement Program.  Working with our national security colleagues, 
we have revoked the Section 214 operating authorities of four Chinese state-owned carriers.  We also 
have worked with the Department of State to update the 20-year-old process used for approving 
submarine cable licenses and with the Department of Justice to address related national security concerns.  
In addition, I have proposed stricter data breach reporting rules and launched inquiries on the security of 
internet routing and the security of the Internet of Things in order to reduce cyber risk.  I also rechartered 
the Communications, Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council and, for the first time, designated 
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency as a co-chair.  And as today’s rulemaking 
demonstrates, there’s more to come.
Thank you to the Commission staff responsible for making all of this happen—and for ensuring 
that network security is now a priority for the agency.  That is true during Cybersecurity Awareness 
Month and every month.  A special thank you for today’s rulemaking goes to Debra Jordan, Nicole 
McGinnis, David Furth, Austin Randazzo, Rochelle Cohen, Ken Carlberg, James Wiley, Steven Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
55Carpenter, Minsoo Kim, Tara Shostek, Saswat Misra, Justin Cain, Shawn Cochran, John Evanoff, and 
David Sieradzki from the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau; Deborah Broderson and Douglas 
Klein from the Office of General Counsel; Aleks Yankelevich, Emily Talaga, Chuck Needy, and Cher Li 
from the Office of Economics and Analytics; Jeremy Marcus, Ashley Tyson, Janet Moran, Chris Sova, 
and Raphael Sznajder from the Enforcement Bureau; Charles Mathias and Ethan Jeans from the Wireless 
Telecommunications Bureau; Chana Wilkerson and Joy Ragsdale from the Office of Communications 
Business Opportunities; Zachary Ross from the Wireless Competition Bureau; and Sima Nilsson from the 
Media Bureau.Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
56STATEMENT OF
COMMISSIONER GEOFFREY STARKS
Re: Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, PS 
Docket No. 15-94; Wireless Emergency Alerts, PS docket No. 15-91; Protecting the Nation’s 
Communications Systems from Cybersecurity Threats, PS Docket No. 22-329, Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (October 27, 2022)
As technology becomes more sophisticated and integral to public life, the risk and occurrence of 
cyber-attacks has also increased at an alarming rate. The threat of cyber-attacks has permeated through 
every industry with digital capabilities, including the domestic public warning system we use in the 
United States. Specifically, the Emergency Alert System (EAS) and the Wireless Emergency Alert 
(WEA) system are two significant components of the national public warning system. Both services exist 
to deliver urgent national public warnings from state, local, and federal authorities when there is 
emergency information necessary to protect people and property from danger, such as inclement weather, 
and AMBER alerts. Given the significance of these services, it is especially important for the 
Commission to emphasize the security of EAS and WEA.
Unfortunately, in the last decade, the Commission has been made aware of several incidents that 
raise concerns about the security of the EAS and WEA systems. EAS and WEA systems have become 
increasingly susceptible to malicious intrusions and cyber threats without sufficient security measures in 
place to protect them. According to data collected by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau 
during the nationwide EAS test in August 2021, more than 5,000 EAS Participants were using outdated 
software or using equipment that no longer supported regular software updates. In the area of equipment 
operational readiness, the test also revealed that an appreciable number of EAS Participants were unable 
to participate in testing due to equipment failure. Most recently, on August 1, 2022, the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued an advisory on a potential vulnerability in certain EAS 
encoder/decoder devices that have not been updated to most recent software versions. FEMA observed 
that if EAS devices are not up to date, an unauthorized actor could issue false EAS alerts over the EAS 
Participant’s infrastructure. The same week, the Commission released another Public Notice highlighting 
the need for EAS participants to secure their EAS equipment.  We simply cannot leave our alerting 
systems unprotected.
The proposals in the NPRM would require EAS Participants and Commercial Mobile Service 
(CMS) providers that participate in WEA take several steps to increase the operational readiness of these 
systems and improve the Nation’s cybersecurity posture, including by addressing cybersecurity 
vulnerabilities that could be exploited by malicious cyber actors. First, the item proposes that EAS 
participants report unauthorized access of their EAS equipment, communications systems, and services 
within 72 hours of when it knew or should have known that the incident occurred, with details of the 
incident. Second, it seeks comment on whether we should require the same for unauthorized access to 
WEA systems and equipment. This is an important step. Without notice, unauthorized access could 
continue unabetted and spread to other EAS and WEA systems.
I’m glad to see that the item has proposed to have the reporting period match the amount of time 
identified in the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022 (CIRCIA).  I’ve 
consistently said that the Commission’s actions must be within the larger whole-of-government approach 
to protect our nation’s networks and infrastructure. I’m confident that this proposal will compliment other 
efforts at the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency as it implements the broader CIRCIA 
reporting requirements, and as we work together to secure our networks.
The item also proposes to require EAS Participants and Participating CMS Providers to annually 
certify to creating, updating, and implementing a reasonably sufficient cybersecurity risk management 
plan to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their respective alerting systems. I strongly Federal Communications Commission FCC 22-82
57support this proposal. Consistent with my recent efforts to push for providers receiving Universal Service 
Fund support to have cybersecurity risk management plans, it is integral that our networks are protected 
and that providers take affirmative steps to do so as part of their normal operations. To the extent that the 
Commission asks to see a copy of a provider’s cybersecurity risk management plan, I appreciate my 
colleagues agreeing to my edit to propose that these plans be presumptively confidential. It is important 
that providers view us a partner on national security. To be so, we need to ensure that we are doing our 
part to protect their networks when they share information with us.
I also want to thank my colleagues for agreeing to another edit. As part of our proposal to require 
EAS Participants to adopt cybersecurity risk management plans, we will now seek comment on whether 
we should require the plans to be structured to follow the NIST Risk Management Framework  or the 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework.  The importance to the safety of life and property regarding EAS alerts 
cautions that allowing a cybersecurity risk management plan that doesn’t meet the structure of the NIST 
gold standards is likely to be ineffective. If, as Shakespeare once said, “what’s past is prologue,” we need 
to be vigilant to avoid a situation where so many EAS participants did not update their system. Our recent 
experience with those in the path of Hurricanes Fiona and Ian reiterated the importance of EAS and WEA 
alerts. We must ensure and safeguard EAS’s operational readiness. We must increase the Commission’s 
situational awareness of disruptions to EAS. And, we must further prevent instances of cyber-attacks on 
EAS and WEA.
It is fitting that we are adopting this item now, as October is Cybersecurity Awareness Month. I 
thank the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, and all the Commission staff that worked 
diligently on this item. It has my support.