 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
January 17, 2018
Emergency Alerting —False Alarm  in Hawaii
Background  
On Saturday, January 13, 2018, at 8:07 a.m., an emergency 
alert was issued by  Hawaii’s Emergency Management 
Agency ( HI-EMA) warning residents  and visitors in Hawaii 
of an i ncoming ballistic missile.  The message was sen t by 
HI-EMA through the state’s emergency alert system which 
distributed it to radio and television stations and to 
thousands of cell phone users in Hawaii. Widespread fear 
and panic was reported.   
 
Within minutes, HI -EMA officials received the alert on 
their own cell phones and realized the message was sent in 
error. HI-EMA reported that a team member issued an 
actual alert instead of a test alert d uring a required test of 
the system  at a shift change.  HI -EMA then had difficulty 
issuing a correction/retraction message.   
When they received the alert, t he Hawaii National Guard 
reportedly contacted U.S. Pacific Command  (USPACOM) 
which confirmed there had been no missile launch. 
Representative  Tulsi Gabbard contacted the Hawaii 
National Guard, confirmed there was no threat, and released 
a “FALSE ALARM” me ssage on Twitter at 8:19 a.m .  
 
HI-EMA posted a “FALSE ALARM” message on 
Facebook and Twitter at 8: 20 a.m., but the official 
correction from HI -EMA through the state’s emergency 
alerting system was not  released until 8:45 a.m. —38 
minutes after the initial alert.  
Residents and elected officials criticized the length of time 
HI-EMA took to issue the corre ction.  Timeline  
HI-EMA shared a timeline of events at a press confe rence 
held on January 13, 2018:   
8:07 a.m.—The initial alert was sent . 
8:10—HI-EMA o fficials received the alert on their own cell 
phones  and started the cancellation process . 
8:13—Hawaii’s State Warning Point  (the state’s central 
communication center)  initiated the process  to stop 
transmitting the message . 
8:20—HI-EMA posted the cancellation message 
to Facebook and Twitter.  
8:24—Governor Ige retweet ed the cancellation message .  
8:30—Governor  Ige posted the cancellation on Facebook . 
8:45—HI-EMA issued a second alert over the emergency 
alert system, announcing the false alarm.   
The Nation’s Alerting System  
In 2006, President George W. Bush issued Executive Order 
(E.O.) 13407 establishing a pol icy for national alerts and 
warnings.  The E.O.  provide s the President with a means to 
communicate with citizens during emergencies, and 
recognizes the role of state, local, tribal , and territorial 
entities in  emergency response.   
The E.O. requires the Dep artment of Homeland Security 
(DHS) to lead the effort, in coordination with federal, state, 
local, tribal, territorial , and private sector partners  – to 
integrate and modernize the n ation’s p ublic alert and 
warning systems.  These systems include:  
 Emergency  Alert System (EAS) ; 
 National Warning System (NAWAS) ; 
 Wireless Emergency Alert s (WEA) ; and  
 NOAA Weather Radio All Hazards . 
The network is designed to integrate the nation’s warning 
systems into one system , called the Integrated Public Al ert 
and Warning System (IPAWS).  IPAWS is managed and 
funded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA), a component of DHS.  IPAWS  allows alerts to be 
originated by federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial 
officials , and then sent through the IPAWS system w hich 
disseminates the message to the  public using multiple 
alerting systems  (e.g., EAS sends the alert to television and 
radio, WEA sends the alert to cell phones).  
Emergency Alerting —False Alarm in Hawaii  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  The benefit of IPAWS is that it allows authorized state and 
local officials to send one messag e to many channels at the 
same time, reducing the time needed to send messages, 
reducing the possibility  of errors in message content and 
delivery, and ensuring timely delivery to citizens who may 
rely on different devices to receive emergency alerts.   
As shown in this  incident, officials may leverage multiple 
means of communication (e.g., social media) to send 
messages to citizens . This is not part of the national alerting 
system. The resulting  benefits are that these  messages are 
fast and easy to send; t he risks are that they may not be 
accurate or coordinated with emergency management staff.  
FCC Role  
The Federal Communications Commission (F CC) plays an 
impo rtant role in emergency alerts.  In conjunction with 
FEMA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration’s (NOAA) National Weather Service 
(NWS) , the FCC  implements the national Emergency Alert 
System (EAS) . The EAS is a national public warning 
system that requires broadcasters (e. g., television, cable, 
satellite)  to provide c ommunications capabilities to (1 ) the 
President to address the American public duri ng a national 
emergency, and (2 ) state and local governments to provide 
important emergency information to specific areas.  
The FCC’s role includes prescribing rules that establish 
technical standards for the EAS, procedures for 
broadcasters to follow, and testing protocols.  
Further, the FCC is responsible for implementing the 
provisions in the Warning, Alert , and Response Networ k 
(WARN) Act (P.L. 109 -347), which allowed commercial 
mobile service (CMS) providers to transmit the alerts to cell 
phones, if they chose.  In 2016, the FCC adopted rules t o 
improve Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) , including 
making  alert messages longer ( more  characters), supporting 
URL links to provide additional information to citizens, and 
supporting Spanish -language alerts.    
Alerting Authorities  
A federal, state, terri torial, tribal, or local agency that has 
been granted authority by its government to alert the public 
in emergency sit uations can sign up for IPAWS. That 
agency is known as an “Alerting Authority.”   
IPAWS is accessed through special software that must mee t 
IPAWS system requirements. Alerting A uthorities can 
select software from a list of private sector developers who 
have successfully tested that software in an IPAWS Open 
Platform for Emergency Network (IPAWS -OPEN) test 
environment or they can select their  own software that must 
then be tested in the IPAWS -OPEN test environment.   
While access to IPAWS is free, and there is no cost to 
sending messages, Alerting Authorities must purchase the 
IPAWS -compatible software to access the system.  Incident in Hawaii —After Alert Was 
Sent  
Immediately a fter the alert was sent, H I-EMA officials 
spent time researc hing how to retract the message . HI-EMA 
officials asked FEMA for clarification about whether they 
could use IPAWS to rescind an alert .  FEMA stated that HI-
EMA  did not need approval to retract the alert, that it had 
authority to cancel or retract any time.  
In a press conference several hours later, HI-EMA 
confirmed that the release of the “FALSE ALARM”  was 
delayed while they consulted FEMA on the retraction 
policy and crafted the cancellation message.   HI-EMA also 
confirmed that their alerting software allows for single -
activation and verification of alerts.  HI -EMA has since 
changed that protocol to require dual verification.  
Some congressional policymakers  have called for hearings 
on the incident, citing a need to review  federal -state-local 
communications and response protocols during national 
security incidents, and  request ing preparedness assistance. 
The state legislature is also conducting hearings .  
Issues  for Congress  
Congressional hearings on the incident are planned . Issues 
for consideration may include:   
 How a re states prepared for disasters?  Congress may 
hold hearings on the i ncident to learn about the issues 
Hawaii  faced  (e.g., communications, trans portation, 
public health and safety) ; what FEMA has done and is 
doing to help states prepare for disaster ; how well states 
feel they are  prepared for disasters; and what FEMA can 
do to strengthen preparedness in all states.  
 Are improvements t o the national alert  system needed?  
Congress may wish  to request that FEMA/IPAWS 
review the software endorsed for use with IPAWS to 
ensure any features that could contribute to false alerts 
are corrected; review training modules to ensure 
cancellation procedure s are included; provide additional 
training to states on cancellation protocols; and share 
lessons learned from Hawaii with other IPAWS users.  
 How may policymakers  improve alert  systems ?  The 
system successfully delivered the alert, but provided 
limited i nformation about what to do in response.  There 
may be a need for the FCC, FEMA/IPAWS, and state 
emergency managers to coordinate to improve alerts and 
the delivery of f ollow -on in structions. T he FCC is 
investigating the incident in Hawaii. Congress may wish 
to ask the FCC to share its findings, to determine how 
Congress may assist in improving alerts.  
 How may policymakers improve coordination during 
response?  Congress may review the findings from any 
after-action reports or investigations of this incident  to 
address any issues with communications, coordination , 
and response among feder al, state, and local officials .   
Jill C. Gallagher , Analyst in Telecommunications Policy    
IF10816Emergency Alerting —False Alarm in Hawaii  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF10816  · VERSION 3 · NEW   
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 