 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
 
July 26, 2024
IT Outage from CrowdStrike ’s Update : Impacts to Certain 
Public Safety Systems an d Considerations for Congress
On July 19, 2024, CrowdStrike, a U.S. cybersecurity firm, 
released  a software update to their customers . The update  
caused  certain  systems to crash , disrupt ing services across 
several industries, including airlines , banks, hospitals, 
government  agencies, and public safety systems.   
CrowdStrike reported that the incident was caused by  “a 
defect found in a single content update of its software on 
Microsoft Windows operating systems” and was not a 
cyberattack. Though the update affected less than 1%  of all 
Windows machines, the impacts were widesprea d and 
global . The  incident  illustrates the vu lnerabilities of 
information technology ( IT) systems, increased dependence 
and risks in relying on third -party vendors for critical IT 
services, and lack of protocols and backup systems in the 
event of IT system fail ures.  
This In Focus  discusses the incident’s  impact on certain 
U.S. public safety communications systems and services .  
Impact on Public Safety Systems  
The incident  affected public safety agencies that use 
CrowdStrike ’s cybersecurity software on their computer 
systems . This i ncluded some 911 systems ; police and fire 
agenc y systems ; fire alarms;  and broadcast  networks , some 
of which play a role in emergency alerting . It also affected  
the computers and operations of some federal agencies that 
support public safety  agencies and emergency response . 
Select ed 911 Systems and Services  
The CrowdStrike update  reportedly  affected  public safety 
systems and services in certain jurisdictions across several 
states. In some areas  (examples below) , 911 centers were 
able to receive voice calls, but their computer systems were 
not operational.  
• In Phoenix , AZ, the police department reported  the 
outage affected their computerized 911 dispatch 
center —people could still call the 911 center and calls 
were being answered, but caller information was 
recorded manually rather than through the 
computerized dispatch system . 
• In Portland , OR, the mayor’s office announced  some of 
the city’s computers and servers were affected, 
includ ing the Bureau of Emergency Communication 
computer -aided dispatch (CAD) system —people could 
still make voice calls to the 911 center, but the center 
had to switch to  taking calls  manual ly rather than 
answering calls using its computerized system.  
In other areas  (examples follow ), the update reportedly  
affected 911 calling .  • In Alaska, state troopers announced  911 systems were 
not operating correctly due to the incident  and posted 
alternative pho ne numbers to call in lieu of 911 . 
• In Middletown , OH, police issued a notice to the public 
of its inability  to receive 911 calls and offered 
alternative phone number s.  
Other jurisdictions reported no impacts  to 911  services .  
Other Public Safety -Related Systems  
In some areas  (examples below) , the faulty CrowdStrike 
update  affected other public safety -related systems.   
• In Columbus , OH, police reportedly  were unable to 
access data from terminals in their vehicles , including 
law enforcement data systems and license plate 
information, and firefighters were unable to receive 
dispatch information in their vehicles . 
• In Ocean City , MD, fire alarms that automatically 
contact the fire department upon detection of a fire 
reportedl y were affected.  
Federal Agencies Support ing Public Safety  
• A Department of Homeland Security (DHS) manager 
reported  that some staff encountered  issues loggin g 
into desktop computers but were able to work through 
phones, virtual desktop, or web-based  applications.  
• DHS’s Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA) reported  some issues with its systems, but an 
agency spokesperson said , “there are no impacts to 
FEMA’s critical or immediate lifesaving and life -
sustaining operations. There is also no evidence of any 
data loss.” FEMA’s Integrated Public Alert and 
Warning System (IPAWS) and the Emergency Alert 
System were reportedly  working normally; however, 
some broadcasters  whose stations  may play a role in 
distribution of alerts and warnings were af fected.  
Impact on Telecommunications  Systems  
Public safety agencies rely on commercial 
telecommunication networks as an additional means of 
communications , for prioritization of calls  for officials , and 
for 911 calling and emergency alerting. Telecommunication 
networks seemingly were not affected  by the incident . 
People were able  to make calls and communicate on 
landline and cell phone networks. IT systems of some  
telecom providers who use CrowdStrike ’s service  were 
affected, leading to some disruption of bus iness operations 
and customer service , but networks remained operational . IT Outage from CrowdStrike’s Update: Impacts to Certain Public Safety Systems and Considerations for Congress  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  The incident  was similar to a February 22, 2024 , outage of 
the AT&T wireless network  in that  both were caused b y a 
faulty software update, and both affected public safety 
systems. The events  were different in that AT&T was 
updating its own network, whereas CrowdStrike —a third -
party vendor that provides cybersecurity services to 
companies and government agencie s—was updating its 
client -end software on its customers’ computers .  
Future Public Safety  Considerations  
In a 2017  white paper on telecommunications secur ity, 
Oracle, a U.S.-based computer networking technology 
company, explained that telecommunication networks were 
“designed in a different era,” where a small set of operators  
managed the physical interconnection  of networks  and 
network security. The emergence of Internet Protocol  
(IP)—the set of rules for addressing and routing data over 
the internet —enabled interconnectivity between many 
networks, creating  the global internet  and the ability for IP-
based networks and device s to interconnect . With the 
adoption  of IP -based devices (e.g., smartphones, smart 
TVs), Oracle reports, “now virtually anyone can purchase 
or gain access to networks ,” creating new risks.   
The telecommunication s and public safety sectors  have 
been migrating to IP -based network s and software -defined 
networks  to enhance network management and performance  
and enable interconnectivity . One example  is Next 
Generation 911 (NG911), which  allows  for advanced 
capabilities , such as text-to-911 and other multimedia 
communications (e.g., videos), improve d call routing,  
enhance d location -finding , and interconnection with other 
911 centers.  While NG91 1 enabl es interconnectivity 
between 911 centers , enhancing redundancy and resiliency , 
it also introduce s new vulnerabilities, including cyber risks. 
Some companies address cyber risks internally, protecting 
their devices, networks, and data through their own  IT 
solutions . Others adopt third -party vendors to protect their 
systems. CrowdStrike is a third -party vendor providing 
such services. Use of third -party vendors for critical IT 
services create s another risk for network operators in that 
any outage  caused by or to a third -party provider or supplier 
also presents risks. In this case, dependence on 
CrowdStrike, a large cybersecurity firm  that offers its 
services globally, explain s the widespread outage.  
The incident  demonstrates  the need for cybersecurity 
detection and services a s well as  the heavy reliance that 
entities , including public safety agencies, may have on one 
vendor. The risk is that when the vendor releases a software 
update over the internet, it can affect many computers and 
many entities  at once , including public safety agencies . As 
more public safety systems move toward IP -based systems , 
more entities may rely o n network -based , third -party 
services  to address cyber risks . In this context,  it may be 
important for public safety agencies to increase attention to 
and investment in backup protocols and systems that allow 
entities  to maintain continuity of service  during outages . 
Executive Branch  Response  
The White House reportedly  has been  assessing the impact 
of the incident on federal IT, critical infrastructure, and public safety systems and to industry. DHS ’s Cybersecurity 
and Infrastructure Security Agency ( CISA ) announced  that 
it was  working closely wi th CrowdStrike and  with federal, 
state, local, tribal , and territorial partners, as well as  with 
critical infrastructure and international partners to assess 
impacts and support remediation efforts . The Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) reported  it was 
working with other federal agencies to assist with the 
disruptions and assess the extent of the impact  on 911  
services .  
Congressional Response  
Some Members and committees have responded to the 
Crowd Strike incident . The chair and a subcommittee chair 
of the House Committee on Homeland Security  wrote a 
letter  requesting that CrowdStri ke schedule a hearing with 
the subcommittee. Some Members of the House Oversight 
and Accountability and House Energy and Commerce 
Committee s reportedly have separately  requested briefings 
from CrowdStrike.  
Considerations for Congress  
Congress may seek to a ssess and address potential new 
risks and backup considerations for public safety agencies , 
particularly as Congress consider s funding for the transition 
to NG911. For instance, Congress could direct  
• DHS’s CISA  to work with public and private partners 
to identify and assess risks to public safety systems and 
recommend mitigation methods and best practices to 
avoid outages  of public safety  systems . 
• National Institute of Standards and Technology to 
develop recommendations  for minimum standards  for 
testing and release protocols for software updates  as it 
does for software testing and security . 
Congress also could provide or prioritize funding for 
critical infrastructure resiliency , including  for public safety 
backup system s.  
While the FCC regulates  telecommunications service  
provider s and requires reporting of outages  that may affect 
911 services, it has limited regulatory authority  over 
internet service providers or IT service providers that 
support public safety communications (e.g., 911, alerting). 
The FCC recently has sought comment  on a proposal to 
require broadband internet access providers to report on 
outages during disasters ; the FCC  cited public  safety  
dependenc ies on the internet . Congress may consider 
policies to ensure internet outages , such as  
telecommunication s outages, are timely reported and 
communicated to public safety system operat ors (e.g., 911 
centers, alerting a gencies , police and fire departments).   
See also CRS Report R48135, IT Disruptions from 
CrowdStrike’s Update: Frequently Asked Questions .  
Colby Leigh Pechtol , Specialist in Telecommunications 
Policy    
Jill C. Gallagher , Specialist in Telecommunications Policy   IT Outage from CrowdStrike’s Update: Impacts to Certain Public Safety Systems and Considerations for Congress  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12717  · VERSION 1 · NEW   IF12717
 
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 