CRS INSIGHT  
Prepared for Members and  
Committees of Congress  
  
 
 
  INSIGHT i 
 
Emergency Communications: Homeland 
Security Issues in the 116th Congress  
Updated January 29, 2019  
  
 
  
Overview  
First responders and other emergency personnel use emergency communications systems to communicate 
with each other during day -to-day operations and large -scale disasters. Emergency communication 
systems are also used to enable communications between the public and response agencies. Emergenc y 
communication systems include  
 911 systems  that receive calls from the public, requesting assistance or reporting an 
emergency , and that relay those calls to response agencies  (e.g., local police and fire 
departments) ; 
 land mobile radio (LMR) systems that allow police, firefighters, and emergency medical 
service (EMS) workers to commun icate with each other  during day-to-day operations and 
disasters ; 
 the First Responder Network ( FirstNet ), the nationwide public safety broadband network , 
which is currently under deployment and scheduled for completion in 2022, will enable 
response agencies at all levels o f government to communicate via voice and data (e.g., 
text, videos); and  
 alerting systems  that notify people of emergencies and warn people of danger.  
These systems  often rely on  different technologies  that can inhibit interoperability and response. For 
example, 911 systems are not able to send 911 text messages to first responders in the field. State and 
Congressional Research Service  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
IN11028  Congressional Research Service  2 
  local police and fire age ncies use various radio technologies that can connect responders within their 
agency, but may not be interoperable with surrounding systems.  
Federal, state, and local public safety agencies are investing in Internet Protocol (IP) -based technologies 
to imp rove communications, coordination, and response. The federal government has created an IP -based 
national alerting system that allows authorized agenc ies to send a single alert through multiple alerting 
systems. The federal government has also invested in F irstNet, a nationwide seamless, IP -based, high -
speed mobile communications n etwork that will enable  public safety users  to communicate via voice and 
data with other public safety agencies. The re is also interest at all levels of government in upgrading 911 
systems to next generation , IP-based systems, to enable callers to share data and to  interconnect systems.  
Opportunities and Challenges of New Technologies  
As emergency communications systems  converge toward a common IP -based platform, there are 
opportun ities and challenges. Advancements in geo -location technologies present opportunities to find 
911 callers more easily; however, integration of these technologies into legacy 911 systems is challenging. 
Advancements in alerting have enabled officials to send alerts to mobile phones , yet some  people still rely 
on landline phones for communication s. Interconnecting systems could improve information sharing but 
presents challenges in terms of privacy and security of data flo wing across multiple networks.  
IP-based technologies enable emergency communications systems to interconnect, creating the potential 
for nationwide systems. The emergence of nationwide systems may create a need for new policies that 
integrate these new technologies into response plans and  protocols, and policies that support collaborative 
planning, training, and exercises across all levels of government to improve response.  
Further, migration to new technologies is costly. Not all jurisdictions  may be  able to fund technology 
upgrades. Ado ption of new technologies may also require upgrades to and investment s in emergency 
communications systems  and private telecommunications networks .  
Issues for the 116th Congress  
The 116th Congress may continue its oversight of the effectiveness of emergen cy communications before, 
during, and after natural or man -made disasters (e.g., hurricanes, wildfires), and the roles and 
responsibilities of federal, state, and local agencies, and private telecommunications providers during 
response. Congress may also  to examine the effectiveness of federal programs established to promote and 
support emergency communications , including   
 National 9 -1-1 Program  administered by the National Highway and Traff ic Safety 
Administration (NHTSA) in the U.S. Department of Transportation , which provides 
federal leadership and coordination in supporting and promoting optimal 911 services;   
 First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet) , the federal authority within the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) in the U.S. Department of 
Commerce established to create the nationwide public safety broadband network ; 
 Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) , the national alerting system 
administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);  
 Emergency Communications Division  in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ’s 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) , which is responsible for 
promoting interoperable and coordinated  communications across a ll levels of 
government ; and  
 federal grant programs  that fund emergency communications.Congressional Research Service  3 
IN11028  · VERSION 4 · NEW    
Congress may also focus on the activities of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC ) 
Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau (PSHSB) , which administers FCC pol icies related 
to emergency communications, includin g rules for carriers supporting 911 services ; state an d 
local use of 911 fees; public safety spectrum ; public alerts, including rules for carriers delivering 
wireless alerts to mobile phones ; disaster management and reporting of private network outages ; 
and restoration efforts .  
 
Author Information  
 
Jill C. Gallagher  
Analyst in Telecommunications Policy  
   
 
 
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff 
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of 
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of 
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. 
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United 
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, 
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the 
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 