 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
 
January 26, 2022
Aviation Concerns Regarding the Rollout of 5G Wireless 
Telecommunications Networks
The rollout of fifth-generation (5G) wireless 
telecommunications networks in the United States has 
roiled passenger and cargo airlines and other aviation 
operators over fears that certain mid-band or C-band 5G 
signals could  interfere with aircraft radio altimeter s. These 
concerns prompted the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA)  to issue alerts to aircraft operators  in late 2021 about 
possible flight safety risks . FAA asked aircraft operators  for 
related data , urged them to educate pilots about potential 
disruptions , and prohibited certain flight proc edures as a 
safety precaution . At the urging of FAA, the Department of 
Transportation, the White House,  and some Members of 
Congress,  telecommunications companies agreed to 
voluntarily delay the rollout of 5G service near airports , 
originally scheduled for  early December 2021, until July 
2022,  to avoid air travel disruptions . This will give FAA 
and avionics equipment manufacturers additional time to 
more thoroughly  assess whether C-band 5G signals might 
interfere with flight operations  and whether equipment 
upgrades or other mitigation actions will be  needed to 
adequately shield aircra ft systems from 5G interference . 
Radiofrequency Spectrum and 5G Signals  
5G networks are being installed all around the world , but 
are being assigned different frequency bands in different 
countries. While low -band (below 1 gigahertz (GHz)) and 
high-band (above 24 GHz) 5G frequencies are not the focus 
of current concerns raised by FAA and aviation 
stakeholders, the assignment of  C-band frequencies in the 
range of roughly 3 to 5 GHz has alarmed the aviation 
industry over potential interference with radio altimeters.  
Europe has allocated spectrum between 3.4 and 3.8 GHz for  
C-band  5G, while in Japan, frequencies from 3. 4 to 4.1 
GHz  are assigned . In the  United States, the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) approved use of 
spectrum between 3.7 and 3.98 GHz for 5G in 2020, and 
subsequently auctioned licenses in this band to 
telecommunications providers . U.S. providers paid over 
$81 billion for C -band l icenses , and are eager to launch 
service in order to recoup these costs and realize a return o n 
investment in  5G technology that will give wireless 
customers faster data transmission speeds and greater 
reliability than fourth -generation (4G) wireless service.  
Potential Interference with Radio Altimeters  
Worldwide, aviation operators have long used a slice of 
radiofrequency spectrum between 4.2 GHz and 4.4 GHz 
that is exclusively reserved for radio altimeters . These 
devices, frequently installed on airliners, regional and 
business jets , turboprops , advanced helicopters, and 
military aircraft measure aircraft altitude above the ground 
by timing how long  it take s for a directional radio 
transmission  to reach the terrain  below and bounce  back to an onboard receiver . Radar altimeters provide input to  
aircraft  terrain alerting systems  that provide pilots with 
information and warnings about  terrain and obstacle 
clearance. Radar altimeters also provide data to automated 
flight control systems  used for vertical flight guidance at 
low altitude, especially during approach to landing. While 
airplanes can rely on other systems, including precision 
instrument landing system s, to descend to about 200 feet 
above the ground , radar  altimeters are essent ial to providing 
vertical guidance below 200 feet in low -visibility 
conditions when pilots are unable to clearly see the runway.  
While such capabilities are essential for all -weather 
commercial flight operations, radar altimeters are not 
commonly found on small general aviation aircraft.  
FAA, along with aviation regulators from other countries, 
first raised concerns about wireless deployments in the C -
band in 2015.  They cautioned that 5G signals transmitted 
on nearby frequencies could potentially interfere with radio 
altimeter s, particularly if high-powered 5G base stations are 
placed  close to airport runways.  Although not required  by 
regulation , most radio altimeters currently in use  have mask 
filters to block signals on nearby frequencies  that could be 
mistaken for reflected radio altimeter signals . However, i t is 
uncertain whether these filters  will adequately block more 
powerful 5G signals  in all cases . 
A study by RTCA, an aviation industry technical advisory 
group founded as the Radio Te chnical Commission for 
Aeronautics, concluded  that expected interference levels 
from fundamental 5G emissions in the 3.7 -3.98 GHz range 
and spurious or stray 5G emissions that bleed over into the 
4.2-4.4 GHz band were likely to exceed safe interference 
limits for all envisioned 5G transmitter configurations 
across all categories of airplanes and helicopters equipped 
with radio altimeters. Moreover, it determined that stray 5G 
emissions that might bleed over into the band reserved for 
radio altimeters would not be considered compliant with 
international recommendations for radiofrequency 
protection criteria.  
The FCC countered  that the RTCA  findings as sume a 
worse -case scenario, and that alternative testing found  that 
FCC -mandated  protections, including  limits on the strength 
of 5G signals and 220 MHz of spectral separation  between 
5G signals and radio  altimeter s, would  mitigate the 
potential for interference. Further, the FCC argued that 
properly engineered radio equipment should not be prone to 
harmful interference  from 5G signals.  
Near -Term M itigation Actions  
Telecommunications  provider s voluntarily pushed back 5G 
launch schedules from early December 2021 to J anuary Aviation Concerns Regarding the Rollout of 5G Wireless Telecommunications Networks  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  2022 to provide FAA with additional time to address radio 
altimeter interference concern s. As C-band 5G deployments 
were slated to launch in early January 2022, FAA  initially 
restrict ed the use of approach procedures and automated 
landing system operations at 88 airports where  it 
determine d that the presence of C -band 5G signals could 
pose a risk of  radio altimeter interference. However , service  
providers  subsequently  agreed  to voluntarily delay 
activation of 5G transmitters located close to airports  until 
July 5, 202 2, thus  creating temporary “buffer zones” around 
airports during  the first si x months of the 5G rollout . If, 
after this time,  FAA decides to restrict  certain flight 
procedures due to lingering 5G concerns , aircraft operators 
could  be forced to execute costly flight diversions  in poor 
weather  or cancel flights  of aircraft using radio altimet ers 
not approved by FAA for low -visibility approaches in the 
presence of 5G. Despite agreements to create temporary 5G 
buffer zones around U.S. airports, some airlines , including 
some international airlines,  cance led flights and modified 
service i n January 2022, apparently in response  to 
continued uncertainty regard ing possible disruptions to low -
visibility operations over 5G interference concerns . 
Approaches in Other Countries  
Other countries, including Canada, have initially restricted 
the installation of 5G transmitters near airports. The 5G 
rollout in Europe over the past three years has not generated 
the same concerns from aviation, in part  because the 
approved frequencies have greater separation from  radio 
altimeter bands  than in the United States, reducing the 
likelihood of interference.  Moreover, some European 
countries , notably France,  have insisted that 
telecommunications providers implement  additional  
mitigation  measures to reduce potential confl icts between 
5G signals and radio altimeters, including  restricting power 
output of 5G towers , restricting placement of 5G antennas 
in buffer zones near airports , and  requiring that 5G antennas 
near airports be tilted downward to reduce the likelihood of 
interference with flight operations (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1. Comparing 5G Source Mitigation  in France 
and the United States  
 
Source: Federal Aviation Administration . 
In Japan, where frequencies up to 4.1 GHz allocated for 5G 
are even closer to radio altimeter frequencies than in the 
United States, the government has restricted the placement 
of 5G transmitters within 200 meters o f airport approach paths. In the United States, however, 5G providers have 
been reluctant to agree to such measures , as they could 
reduce the availability and quality of 5G service in areas 
around airports. Moreover, reducing the power of these 5G 
transmis sions could give competitors that do not rely on 
these frequency bands a competitive advantage.  
Potential Long -Range Resolution  
It will ultimately be up to FAA to decide whether existing 
radio altimeter systems adequately protect against 5G 
interference or  if new replacement units that meet future 
operational performance standards will be required. As of 
late January 2022, FAA ha s provisionally approved roughly  
90% of the U.S. commercial airline fleet equipped with 
radio altimeters to conduct  low-visibility  landings at 
airports with nearby 5G towers.  
FAA is working with industry groups led by RTCA and its 
Europe counterpart, the European Organization for Civil 
Aviation Equipment  or EUROCAE , to develop minimum 
operational performance standards for future radio 
altimeters that will not be susceptible to potentially harmful 
radiofrequency interference. Once these  standards are 
established  and adopted by FAA , manufacturers can begin 
to design, build, and supply units that are not prone to 
potential  impacts from C-band 5G. Replacement of radio 
altimeter s, however,  might prove costly to aircraft 
operators , including the military . The airline  industry and 
other  civilian  operators might ask for  federal relief if faced 
with significant costs to upgrade radio altimeters.  
The potential impacts of 5G are not limited  to operations 
around airports.  Helicopters responding to medical 
emergencies  also rely on radio altimeters whe n landing to 
pick up pati ents. Citing the critical societal importance of 
helicopter emergency medical operations, FAA has granted 
temporary regulatory relief from  radio altimeter 
requirements for medical helicopters  conducting night 
vision goggle operations , so long as ground obs ervers 
remain in radio contact with pilots to guide them regarding 
terrain and obstacle clearance  around landing zones . This 
exemption expire s in 2024, at which point medical 
helicopters may also need upgraded  radio altimeters . 
Lingering Policy Implication s 
The ongoing concerns  over potential aviation safety 
impacts from  the 5G rollout in the United States point to 
broader concerns that may be of particular interest to 
Congress . These include coordination between  FAA and the 
National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration , the federal agency that represents federal 
agency spectrum concerns to the FCC; FAA’s relationship 
with other regulatory agencies such as the FCC ; and FAA’s 
ability to address complex challenges brought about by the 
proliferatio n of wireless technologies and the rapidly 
evolving technical  landscape  in which aviation must 
operate.  
Bart Elias , Specialist in Aviation Policy    
IF12028
  
Aviation Concerns Re garding the Rollout of 5G Wireless Telecommunications Networks  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12028  · VERSION 4 · NEW   
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 