 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
 
October 8, 2024
Restoration of Cell Phone Services: Hurricane Helene
On September 26, 2024, Hurricane Helene  made landfall 
near Perry, Florida. The hurricane caused flooding and 
damage to personal property and critical infrastru cture, 
including roads , power, and communication networks . The 
storm’s damage spread  across parts of Florida, Alabama, 
Georgia, the Carolinas, Tennessee, and Virginia. According 
to data reported to the  Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC)  by wireless service providers , while 
cell sites had been repaired in many counties  a week after 
the storm ( October 3, 2024 ), some counties ’ cell site 
outages persisted. Congress may examine public -private 
preparedness for communication outages from Hurric ane 
Helene and consider how to prepare  for and respond to 
future disasters and restore cell service in hard -hit regions.  
Some state and local officials  reported coordination with 
wireless service providers on preparation and restoration 
efforts; others, inc luding a mayor  and residents  in North 
Carolina, reportedly faulted public -private preparation 
efforts. Wireless providers reported on preparation and  
restoration efforts but noted challenges in some areas.  
Challenges derived from damaged critical infrastructure 
(e.g., roads) inhibiting access to cell sites , damage to cell 
towers and wire lines (e.g., fiber) that connect cell sites to a 
provider’s network , and lack of power to cell sites 
hindering permanent restoration.  
Federal Role in Restoring Cell Services  
Generally, wireless networks are privately owned. Network 
owners take responsibility for repair ing their networks and 
restor ing services for their customers (e.g., government 
agencies, businesses, indivi duals) after disasters.  
When authorized , the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency ( FEMA ) may deploy communication assets  to 
support federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial response 
(e.g., deploying mobile assets for emergency managers). 
FEMA also coordinates with the p rivate sector to aid in the 
restoration of private networks (e.g., coordinat ing debris 
removal to enable access to cell sites, shar ing information 
on power restoration).  
The FCC monitors the status of commercial networks and 
provides government officials and the public with 
information on the status of communications, outages, and 
restoration efforts. To do this, the FCC requires providers to 
report on the status of their networks during disasters.  
Disaster Information Reporting System  
In anticipation of a disaster or after an unexpected disaster, 
the FCC may activate the Disaster Information Reporting 
System  (DIRS). DIRS is  a web -based system that providers 
use to rep ort network status during disasters. The FCC 
announces DIRS activations through public notices and 
emails to providers; the notice lists the counties covered 
and reporting requirements. The FCC requires  providers to 
submit daily reports on their network status  for listed 
counties. The FCC gives network status data to federal emergency management officials. It also allows  designated 
state agencies to share the information with first responders, 
emergency communications centers, and other government 
agen cies with a public safety role. The FCC publishes 
aggregated outage data (e.g., communications status reports 
on the FCC’s Hurricane Helene website ). 
Mandatory Disaster Response Initiative  
The FCC can activate the  Mandatory Disaster Response 
Initiative  (MDRI) for facilities -based mobile wireless 
providers operating in a certain geographic area in the 
aftermath of a disaster. In June 20 22, the FCC adopted a 
Report and Order  codifying an existing voluntary 
agreement between a limited group of large wireless service 
providers agreeing to coord inate during disasters to enable 
access to communications  (called the Wireless Network 
Resiliency Cooperative Framework ). The rules  require 
providers to improve coordination during emergencies or 
disasters by   
• providing for reasonable roaming when feasible , 
• establishing mutual aid agreements with other wireless 
service providers ,  
• enhancing municipal preparedness and restoration ,  
• increasing consumer readiness and preparation , and  
• improving public awareness and stakeholder 
communications on service and resto ration status.  
FCC rules  require providers  to perform these tasks when 
MDRI is activated. The FCC may activate MDRI when  
• an authorized entity (e.g., FEMA) activates Emergency 
Support Function 2  (ESF -2)—a team of federal agencies 
designated to support restoration of communications;  
• the FCC activates DIRS; or  
• the FCC’s Public Safety and Homeland Securi ty Bureau 
Chief releases a public notice in response to a state’s 
request to activate MDRI, where that  state has activated 
its emergency operations center  or mutual aid 
agreements or has proclaimed a state of emergency.  
Hurricane Helene Response  
Private -sector wireless service providers  and the U.S. 
government, including FEMA and the FCC, took action 
before, during, and after Hurricane Helene to protect and 
restore communications infrastructure.  
Before  Hurricane Helene Made Landfall  
Days before landfall , the U.S. government and private 
telecommunication providers began preparing for Hurricane 
Helene’s arrival in the continental United States.  On 
September 24, 2024, FEMA announced  that it was actively 
preparing and pre -staging resources to support state and 
local government response, including Mobile Emergency Restoration of Cell Phone Services: Hurricane Helene  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Response Support  (MERS), which include s mobile 
emergency  communications facilities , and incident teams .  
On September 25, 2024, the FCC announced  that at the 
request of the State of Florida, and in coordination with the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) 
and FEMA —the ESF -2 coordinators —it was activating 
DIRS and MDRI ahead of the hurricane for select counties 
in Florida, Georgi a, North Carolina, and South Carolina. 
For DIRS, the FCC required providers to report outages to 
the FCC in listed counties. With MDRI activation, the FCC 
required wireless providers operating in those  counties  to 
enable roaming across networks , coordinate  with each other 
and with state and local agencies on preparation and 
restoration efforts , and keep stakeholders and consumers 
informed of status and restoration efforts.   
Private telecommunication providers (e.g., AT&T , Verizon , 
and T-Mobile ) reported taking various actions to prepar e 
for the hurricane. They fortified their networks, refueling 
generators and providing backup batteries at cell sites and 
switching centers. They reported prepositioning mobile 
assets (e.g., satellite cell  on light trucks, satellite cell  on 
wheels)  and dep loying teams to the region. Providers 
indicated that they were coordinating with state and local 
governments and with their public safety customers and 
were ready to receive requests for assistance. The provide rs 
also were preparing and pre -staging equipme nt for 
deployment, and providers offered preparedness guidance 
to consumers.  
The FCC  reminded  public safety and national security and 
emergency preparedness personnel (NSEP) enrolled i n 
Priority Telecommunication Services  about the services 
available to enrollees. The program, managed by CISA, 
prioritizes (1) public safety communications on wireline 
and wireless networks and (2) restoration and provisioning 
of communication assets for NSEP. On September 26, 
2024, before the hurricane made landfall, the FCC posted 
its first communications status report , listing counties 
covered by DIRS, and began tracking outages .  
During and After Hurricane Helene  
On September 27, 2024, the FCC expanded  the activation 
area to include additional counties in South Carolina, 
Tennessee, and Virginia . It also began issuing daily 
communications status reports  with cell site outages in each 
affected state and county  and the percent age of cell sites 
down in each state during the DIRS activation  period 
(Figure 1).  
Figure 1. Percent age of Cell Sites Out of Service , by 
State  (September 27 to  October 3, 2024 ) 
 
Source: FCC, “Communications Status Report for Areas Impacted 
by Hurricane Helene ,” October 3, 2024 .  Notes:  The figure shows c ell site outages reported to the FCC by 
wireless service providers operating in certain counties affected by 
the storm. The number of site s out in a specific area does not 
necessarily correspond to the availability of wireless service to 
consumers in that area , due to overlapping cell sites that ma y provide 
coverage and temporary solutions deployed by providers to enable 
connectivity .  
Wireless service providers reported network outages to the 
FCC and on  their websites ; responded to public safety 
agency requests ; and in some areas , enabled roaming.  
On September 30, 2024, the FCC announced  deactivation 
of DIRS and MDRI for certain counties but retained DIRS 
reporting and MDRI coordination in others, as outages and 
restoration efforts continued . For example, in North 
Carolina, FEMA deployed  Starlink satellite systems in each 
county emergency operations center. The FCC waived 
eligibility requirements under its Lifeline  program, to offer 
discounted phones and broadband services to affected  
individuals , and continued to report on outages . 
While the FCC does not include information on specific 
vendors, an October 2, 2024 , media report  stated that 
Verizon and AT&T reported that 60% of their sites 
impacted by the storm had been restored and that they were 
continuing to deploy t emporary cell sites to enable 
communications. T-Mobile reported  that it had restored 
most sites in West Virginia and Georgia, but in t he 
Carolinas, where access  remain ed a challenge, restoration 
was ongoing . Where power was out, providers said they 
were continuing to supply batteries and fuel to generators. 
Where fiber lines were damaged, providers reported 
deploying mobile assets (satel lite cell  on wheels) and 
microwave solutions to temporarily restore networks. 
AT&T , Verizon , and T-Mobile  also offered charging 
stations and Wi -Fi in some areas. On October 6, 2024, the 
FCC granted  SpaceX and T -Mobile special temporary 
authority for Starlink direct -to-cell satellite services in 
certain areas to support emergency alerting.  
Issues for Congress  
On January 26, 2024, the FCC adopted rules  requiring 
facilities -based mobile wireless service providers to 
implement the MDRI requirements by May 1, 2024 . 
Congress may wish to explore potential lessons learned 
from implementation of the rule during Hurricane Helene, 
especially as implementing the rule  relates to preparedness, 
coordination, and roaming. In the past, Members have been 
interested in expanding outage reporting to in clude 
broadband outages ( H.R. 8178 , 117th Congress) , and the 
FCC has sought comment  on the issue. Congress may  
consider changes to outage reporting. Previous Congresses 
also have considered legislation to improve resiliency and 
redundancy of cell networks by mandating or subsidizing 
backup power to each cell site ( S. 1506 , 117th Congress) . 
While such investments could strengthen resiliency , 
provision of backup power sources could increase costs for 
providers and consumers. Finally, Congre ss could consider 
advantages and disadvantages  of expanded use of and 
federal support for advanced technologies, including drones 
and satellite technologies in rural regions to support 
communications.  
Jill C. Gallagher , Specialist in Telecommunications Policy   
Restoration of Cell Phone Services: Hurricane Helene  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12779  · VERSION 1 · NEW   
Amanda H. Peskin , Analyst in Telecommunications Policy    IF12779
 
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 