 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
 
Updated June 7, 2023
FEMA Assistance: Limited English Proficiency and Equity
Individuals with Limited English Proficiency (LEP)  often 
encounter disproportionate risk during hazards  as well as 
barriers to federal relief . Statute requires t he Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA ; the lead agency  
for domestic emergency management)  to ensure that 
disaster relief reach es individuals with LEP. This In  Focus 
summarizes s elect  risks that language barriers impose 
during hazard response and recovery  (e.g., evacuation and 
sheltering), federal authorities addressing disaster relief for 
individuals with LEP, and recent  policy proposals  to 
enhance the delivery of federal relief for such individuals .  
Language Barri ers—Select Risks  
Language barriers may exacerbate the effects of hazards  
and hinder relief efforts  in the following ways : 
• Individuals with LEP may not understand e vacuation 
notices or instructions , raising the risk of casualty .  
• Individuals with LEP may not understand emergency 
relief providers , imped ing access to e mergency medical 
care, sheltering  assistance , and key relief commodities.  
• Individuals with LEP may not understand federal aid 
applications, written guidance, and oral instructions , 
deterring or delay ing their requests for relief  or yield ing 
insufficient awards. (FEMA  report s that it  can provide 
some assistance in English and Spanish , and contracts 
for assistance in additional languages , though some 
translations may be i naccurate or unintelligible. ) 
• Officials with LEP in state, local, tribal, and territorial 
governments (SLTTs ) and  nonprofits  may not 
understand relief instructions and procedures , inhibiting 
the delivery of critical assistance . 
Key Authorities  
Relevant  Statute s  
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 requires recipients 
of federal assistance to ensure that  persons with LEP have 
meaningful access to such assistance. Additionally, Section 
308 of the  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergen cy Assistance Act (the Staffor d Act, P.L. 93 -288, 
as amended)  require s the issuance of  regulations  ensuring  
the provision of disaster relief without discrimination , 
includin g based on  English proficiency.  
In 2006,  the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform 
Act (PKEMRA,  P.L. 109 -295) amended the Stafford Act . It 
require d the FEMA Administrator to (1) work with SLTTs 
to identify LEP populations and ensure that they are 
incorporated into the disaster planning process , (2) ensure 
that such populations could access  disaster relief 
information, and (3) develop and maintain a da tabase on 
successful language assistance programs that could be 
provided to SLTTs during an incident ( 42 U.S.C. §5196f ).  FEMA Regulations  and Agency Notices  
FEMA issued regulations implementing  statutory civil 
rights obligations for federal disaster relie f at 44 C.F.R. 
§206.11  and 44 C .F.R. Part 7. Per these regulations, entities  
receiving most forms of FEMA assistance (e.g., SLTTs and 
nonprofits) may not discriminate a gainst individuals on the 
basis of national origin, among other grounds , when 
administer ing such relief  (LEP is not explicitly mentioned) . 
FEMA may refuse or terminate financial assistance in cases 
of noncompliance. Additionally, neither federal personnel 
nor agencies may discriminate against individuals when  
providing federal disaster assistance.  
In 2011,  the Department of Homeland Security  (DHS ) 
released guidance for agency components, including FEMA 
(“2011 DHS  Notice ”; 76 Federal Register  21755 ). The 
guidance (1) details federal assistance recipients’ 
respo nsibilities  to ensure access to  individuals with LEP 
and (2) explains how DHS evaluates compliance.  
Federal Communications  Commission (FCC)  
State and local agencies can send emergency alerts through 
FEMA’s Integrated Public Alert and Warning System 
(IPAWS), which distributes alerts via radio, television, cell 
phones, and other means. FEMA coordinates with the 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which 
regulates commercial broadcast and mobile service 
providers  that elect to participate in emergen cy alerting . 
The FCC has adopted rules for the Emergency Alert System 
(EAS), which delivers alerts via television and radio (47 
C.F.R. Part 11), and the Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) 
system, used by mobile service providers to send alerts to 
cell phones (47 C.F.R. Part 10) . FCC mandates that EAS 
broadcasters providing foreign language programming 
should transmit EAS announcements in the primary 
language of the EAS participant (47 C.F.R. §11.55(c)(4)). 
The FCC also requires EAS participants to report actio ns 
taken or planned to reach non -English -speaking audiences 
to help states acquire information on how best to 
disseminate multilingual alerts (47 C.F.R. §11.55(d)). In 
2016, t he FCC adopted WEA rules (47 C.F.R. §10.480) 
requiring wireless service providers to transmit WEA  alerts 
issued in Spanish , or that contain Spanish -language 
characters, to cell phone users who specify Spanish as their 
preferred language. Local government  official s and LEP 
stakeholders have urged the FCC to improve multilingual  
EAS and WEA alerting.  In February 2023, a letter signed  
by 45 Members  from both chambers of Congress urged the 
FCC  to expand the number of WEA languages. In April 
2023 , the FCC adopted a  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
that would require providers that send WEA alerts to ensure 
mobile devices can translate alerts into the 13 most 
commonly spoken languages in the United States, and 
support American Sign Language and speech -to-text. The 
rules are pending.   FEMA Assistance: Limited English Proficiency and Equity  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Executive Orders  
On August 11, 2000 , President Clinton  signed Executive 
Order (E.O.) 13166, Improving Access to English Services 
for Persons with Limited English Proficiency,  which  
requires federal agencies to examine the services they 
provide and develop and implement a system to provide  
individuals with LEP  “meaningful access” to agency 
services. The E.O. builds on  the prohibitions on 
discrimination due to national origin in  Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964, as amended . E.O. 13166 directs all 
agencies providing federal financial assista nce to prepare a 
Language Access Plan (LAP)  to improve access to 
programs by eligible individuals with LEP. The E.O.  
further  directs the Department of Justice (DOJ) to oversee 
agency compliance and consistency in implementation.  
Through DOJ guidance , agencies and recipients of federal 
financial assistance must  assess “meaningful access” to 
their programs and activities through a four -factor analysis:  
1. The number or proportion of individuals 
with LEP served or encountered in the 
service population;  
2. The frequency of contact  with individuals 
with LEP ; 
3. The nature and importance of the 
program; and  
4. The agency’s available resources.  
DOJ explains, “Applying the four factors, for example, a 
small police department with limited resources 
encountering very few L EP people has far fewer language 
assistance responsibilities than larger departments with 
more resources and large populations of LEP individuals.” 
(66 Federal Register 3834) . 
FEMA Policy  and Guidance  
In 2016, FEMA issued a LAP (updated in 2023) to comply 
with E.O. 13166. The LAP explains how  FEMA conducts  
assessments to identify affected LEP individuals following 
a Stafford Act declaration. The 2016 LAP reported  that 
FEMA  releases some relevant information to disaster 
survivors in different lan guages based on  these assessments,  
including  “Civil Rights Notices” that ackn owledge the  right 
of individuals with LEP to receive accessible 
communication , and notice that FEMA can provide 
interpreter services in  up to  69 languages (at certain 
locations ). FEMA’s abbreviated 2023 LAP  reported that the 
agency is to provide  oral and written services to LEP 
individuals, and notices of the availability of such services.  
Select  Policy Issues  
Establishing Trust Across  Language Barriers  
Language barriers may undermine  trust between disaster 
survivors and emergency responders , jeopardizing 
evacuation and relief efforts . For example , some  
immigrants with LEP may avoid government officials due 
to fears of immigration surveillance and enforce ment.  
Implementation Gaps and FEMA Capacity  
FEMA’s bilingual workforce has  sometimes  fallen short of  
demand  in post -disaster areas. For example, FEMA  did not 
have  sufficient Spanish -speaking  staff to serve survivors  in 
Puerto Rico following Hurricane Marí a (GAO -18-472). 
Such shortfalls may be particularly common  when  concurrent disasters require  limited FEMA  personnel  to 
deploy to multiple regions. FEMA may require additional 
appropriations  to support  more  bilingual  permanent  staff, 
short -term reservists, or translators , though some contracted 
translations have been notably inaccurate.   
Recent  Policy Recommendations  
Federal  Hiring for Language Competency  
The 2022 inaugural report of President Joseph R. Biden’s 
Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native 
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (the Commission) called 
upon the Office of Personnel Management to provide 
guidance on hiring bilingual staff, interpreters, and 
translators to federal agencies that di rectly provide federal 
disaster assistance . Other experts also recommended hiring 
local residents that share survivors’ cultures and languages .  
New Requirements for Federal Grant ees 
The Commission’s report also called upon FEMA to  revise 
requirements for  SLTTs  receiving federal assistance . 
Specifically, the Commission recommended that FEMA 
require such entities  to identify LEP commun ities and detail 
how they will ensure meaningful access  to federal relief in 
those c ommunities.  Currently, DHS recommends sim ilar 
actions to establish compliance with federal civil rights 
requirements ( see 2011 DHS Notice). The Commission 
suggested incorporatin g requirements into grant terms, 
scoring methods, and notices of funding opportunities.   
Incorporate LEP Communities int o Planning  
Federal and nonfederal  stakeholders and experts 
recommend  that preparedness and planning efforts include 
individuals with LEP  (and representative organizations)  to 
ensure sufficient consideration of their needs .  
Direct Outreach  to Affected Populations  
A recent coalition of groups representing disaster survivors  
(e.g., Ayuda Legal Puerto Rico)  recommended that FEMA 
provide assistance notices and application guidance through 
door-to-door campaigns to affected, hard -to-reach 
popula tions, particularly LEP individuals. FEMA supported  
similar outreach efforts during the  COVID -19 pandemic 
and Hurricane Ian.  Some entities use commercial o ff-the-
shelf  alerting systems that offer multilingual alerting 
options. However , these systems  often require people 
subscribe or opt -in and do not send alerts to non-
subscribers, including individuals passing through an area .  
Data on Language Outreach  
FEMA’s National Advisory Council (an advisory body of 
representatives from SLTT governments, emergency 
management professionals and experts, and populations 
with special needs) proposed  that FEMA track  the 
languages used to reach survivors  as part of an effort to 
assess the equitability of different agency programs.  
Erica A. Lee , Analyst in Emergency Management and 
Disaster Recovery    
Meghan M. Stuessy , Analyst in Government Organization 
and Management    
Elizabeth M. Webster , Analyst in Emergency 
Management and Disaster Recovery    
Jill C. Gallagher , Analyst in Telecommunications Policy    
IF12263FEMA Assistance: Limited English Proficiency and Equi ty 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12263  · VERSION 10 · UPDATED   
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 