 
 
 
 0 EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY 
FOR CYBERSECURITY
 
  
 
  
BEST PRACTICES 
FOR CYBER CRISIS 
MANAGEMENT  
 
FEBRUARY 2024  
 
Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 1 ABOUT  ENISA  
The European Union Agency for Cybersecurity, ENISA, is the EU agency dedicated to 
achieving a high common level of cybersecurity across Europe. Established in 2004 and 
strengthened by the EU Cybersecurity Act, ENISA contributes to EU cyber policy, enhances  the 
trustworthiness of ICT products, services and processes with cybersecurity certification schemes, cooperates with Member States and EU bodies and helps Europe prepare for the 
cyber challenges of tomorrow. Through knowledge sharing, capacity building and awareness 
raising, the a gency works together with its key stakeholders to strengthen trust in the connected 
economy, to boost resilience of the EU’ s infrastructure and, ultimately, to keep Europe ’s society 
and citizens digitally secure. More information about ENISA and its work can be found here: 
www.enisa.europa.eu
. 
CONTACT  
To contact  the authors , please use cyclone@enisa.europa.eu .  
For media enquiries about this paper, please use press@enisa.europa.eu . 
AUTHORS  
ENISA 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
This study has been drafted within the EU Cyber Crises Liaison Organisation Network (EU -
CyCLONe) . 
LEGAL NOTICE  
This publication represents the views and interpretations of ENISA, unless stated otherwise. It 
does not endorse a regulatory obligation of ENISA or of ENISA bodies pursuant to Regulation 
(EU) 2 019/881.  
ENISA has the right to alter, update or remove the publication or any of its contents. It is intended for information purposes only and it must be accessible free of charge. All references 
to it or its use as a whole or partially must contain ENISA as its source.  
Third-party sources are quoted as appropriate. ENISA is not responsible or liable for the content 
of the external sources including external websites referenced in this publication.  
Neither ENISA nor any person acting on its behalf is responsible for the use that might be made of the information contained in this publication.  
ENISA maintains its intellectual property rights in relation to this publication.  
COPYRIGHT NOTICE  
© European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA), 2024  
Unless otherwise noted, the reuse of this document is authorised under the Creative Commons 
Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) licence https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
. 
This means that reuse is allowed, provided that appropriate credit is given and any changes are indicated. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 2 For any use or reproduction of photos or other material that is not under the ENISA copyright, 
permission must be sought directly from the copyright holders.  
ISBN 978-92 -9204-658 -3, DOI 10.2824/767828  
 Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS  
1. INTRODUCTION 9 
1.1 EU POLICY CONTEXT  9 
1.2 STUDY CONTEXT  9 
1.3 OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY 10 
1.4 SCOPE OF THE STUDY 11 
1.5 METHODOLOGY  11 
2. DEFINITIONS FOR CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT THE  
OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  12 
2.1 DEFINING A CYBER CRISIS  12 
2.2 DEFINING CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT  16 
3. STRUCTURE AND ACTORS OF CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT  
AT THE  OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  23 
3.1 OVERVIEW OF THE STRUCTURE OF CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL  
IN THE EU 23 
3.2 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF ENISA IN CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL  
IN THE EU 24 
3.3 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF MS AND COOPERATION MECHANISMS FOR CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT  
AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU 25 
3.4 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN CYBER CRISIS LIAISON ORGANISATION NETWORK IN  
CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  26 
4. CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT BEST PRACTICES AT THE  
OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  28 
4.1 PHASE 1  – PREVENTION  29 
4.2 PHASE 2  – PREPAREDNESS 32 
4.3 PHASE 3  – RESPONSE 42 
4.4 PHASE 4  – RECO VERY 44 Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 4 5. RECOMMENDATIONS  46 
6. BIBLIOGRAPHY  48 
ANNEX: ENISA ’S KNOWLEDGE BASE  56 
 Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 5 EXECUTIVE SUMM ARY 
This study highlights the complexities behind the notion of cyber crisis and the degree of 
subjectivity it involves. The elevation of a large -scale cyber incident into a cyber crisis 
relies predominantly on a political decision , and depends  largely on the level of risk that EU 
Member States (MS) are prepared to tolerate (i.e. ‘ risk appetite’). 
Differences in interpretation of what constitutes a cyber crisis between MS pose challenges at 
the EU level. The definition of cyber crisis is important as it directly influences the way the  crisis 
is managed. In the meantime, identifying the causes, natur e and impact  of a cyber crisis can 
facilitate the assessment of the crisis and its severity, and influence the selection and adoption 
of appropriate measures for cyber crisis management.  
The management of a cyber crisis involves a variety of actors at the organisational  or 
corporate , sectoral , regional , national  and EU levels . A cyber crisis is managed at  the 
strategic , operational  and technical  levels , with the operational level playing a key role in 
bridging the gap between the other two, ensuring that information is shared at all levels and 
enhancing cooperation and coordination between all relevant stakeholders. In addition, cyber 
crisis management frameworks are part and parcel of general crisis  management 
frameworks.  As a result, the EU has a complex ecosystem of cyber security actors,  
structures and mechanisms,  with a  ‘highly complex and interwoven system of actors, 
structures and processes operating in the cyber domain’, mainly  because cyber crises are often 
transboundary by nature.  
While the EU has developed a crisis management framework specifically dedicated to the 
management of cyber crises  – including through the Blueprint for coordinated response to 
large- scale cross-border cybersecurity incidents and crises (2017)  (Blueprint)  (1), the 
Cybersecurity Act  (2019)  (2) or the network and i nformation security  (NIS ) directive  (2016)  (3) – 
the NIS 2 directive (NIS2) (4) has the strongest impact on cyber crisis management at the 
strategic, operational and technical levels in the EU . At the operational level, it will 
consolidate ENISA ’s support to M S (5) in cyber crisis management, introduce new obligations 
for MS and assert the EU -Cyber Crises Liaison Organisation Network (EU -CyCLONe) as the 
key player in cyber crisis management. NIS2 enables a more coordinated approach through 
greater cooperation between  MS and relevant EU institutions, bodies and agencies 
(EUIBAs) . 
In this study, cyber crisis management at the operational level in the EU is analysed around the 
four phases of the cyber crisis management cycle, namely prevention, preparedness, 
 
(1) European Commission (2017) , Commission Recommendation (EU) 2017/1584 of 13  September 2017 on coordinated response 
to large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises  (OJ L  239, 19.9.2017,  pp. 36–58), https://eur- lex.europa.eu/legal -
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017H1584&qid=1702033489333 . 
(2) European Parliament and Council of the  European Union (2019) , Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on ENISA (the European Union Agency for 
Cybersecurity) and on information and communications technology cybersecurity certification and 
repealing Regulation (EU) No  526/2013 (Cybersecurity Act)  (OJ L  151, 7.6.2019, pp.  15–69), https://eur -
lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2019/881/oj . 
(3)  European Parliament and Council of the European Union (2016) , Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 6  July 2016 concerning measures for a high common level of 
security of network and information systems across the Union  (OJ L  194, 19.7.2016, pp.1– 30), 
https://eur- lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32016L1148.  
(4) European Parliament and Council of EU, Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
14 December 2022 on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the Union, amending Regulation (EU) 
No 910/2014 and Directive (EU) 2018/1972, and repealing Directive (EU) 2016/1148 (NIS 2 Directive)  (OJ L  333, 27.12.2020, 
pp. 80–152), https://eur- lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2022/2555/oj . 
(5) See Chapter 3.4 ‘Role and obligations of ENISA in cyber crisis management at the operational level in the EU’. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 6 response and  recovery,  which should be framed by an all -hazards approach , given that 
threats can have many different origins.  
The best practices identified show that MS have already introduced some effective cyber crisis 
management measures at the operational level. These are likely to continue to grow and 
evolve, as MS implement NIS2 and develop their own responses to the challe nges of cyber 
crisis management.  
The identified best practices are shown below.  
The prevention phase aims to better prevent and reduce the risk of cyber crises and to minimise their effects should they arise.  
• BP #1 . Adoption of a national definition of ‘ cyber crisis’ , taking into account its transboundary 
dimension.  
• BP # 2. Development of information security standards specific to the national public sector, to 
be reviewed and updated regularly.  
• BP # 3. Foster national initiatives which promote the creation  of prevention programmes such 
as centralised distributed denial -of-service  attack ( DDoS ) mitigation programmes . 
 
The preparedness phase aims to develop plans to support response operations . 
• BP # 4. Definition of a governance structure, provision of specific capabilities and appointment 
of a crisis coordinator, whose nomination is mandatory under NIS2, ensuring their 
department has the necessary operational and technical cyber skills to directly coor dinate 
stakeholders during a cyber crisis.  
• BP # 5. Mapping and gathering information on critical entities and their most critical assets to 
enable rapid action.  
• BP # 6. Establishing instantaneous, secured communication channels during a crisis . 
• BP #7 . Formal isation of a clear allocation of roles between the parties involved in responding 
to a cyber crisis in an overall plan.  
• BP #8 . Development of escalation criteria for activating the cyber crisis plan and deploying the 
relevant cooperation units/groups, taking into account factors such as time, priority, players 
involved, severity of the attack, etc.  
• BP #9 . Development of a methodology and risk assessment tools to optimise coordination 
and interoperability in the event of a crisis.  
• BP #10.  Testing of  the overall plan for operations in response to cyber crises through a 
multiannual programme of cyber crisis management exercises and t raining  session s. 
• BP #11.  Setting up training sessions for current and future staff responsible for cyber crisis 
management at the operational level.  
• BP #1 2. Development of a communication strategy including a clear format for messaging, 
stakeholders to involve, priority levels and time factor and communication channels to be 
used.  
The response phase aims to stem the cyber crisis and prevent further damage.  
• BP #13. Encourage the mobilisation of private -sector certified  ‘trusted providers ’ to provide 
technical assistance to victims.  
• BP #1 4. Supporting victims ’ crisis communication , for instance with a unified and transparent 
message.  
 Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 7 The recovery phase aims to enable quick recovery through tailored measures and return 
to a level of security that is normal or even higher than before the crisis.  
• BP #1 5. Develop and implement b usiness resumption plans (BRP) defined in reference 
frameworks, with regular reviewing and updates, in consultation with relevant stakeholders.  
• BP #1 6. Establishment of a unit tasked with gathering feedback, drawing lessons learnt and 
producing recommendations for reviewing, updating and modifying procedures and infrastructure, and  refining the action plan for cyber crisis management.  
Based on the analysis and the way forward of the best practices  (
6), EU -CyCLONe could 
consider the following recommendations . 
Recommendation #1 . Coordinate working sessions involving all MS to define a list of EU -wide 
cyber crisis mechanisms to enable a common assessment of incidents and identify the players 
to be involved depending on the severity of the incident, leading to a model cyber crisis 
response plan. These cyber crisis management mechanisms could be regularly updated in line 
with progress made by the MS, particularly in terms of human and technical resources, 
situational awareness and impact assessment. They should always be part of over arching 
national crisis management frameworks, considering the transboundary nature of most crises and the potential for spill -over effect s impacting many sectors at the same time.  
Recommendation #2 . Develop simulation exercises at the EU level which test the operational 
level players and procedures in particular. These exercises, which should involve all three levels 
(strategic, operational and technical), aim to practice the allocation of tasks, cooperation and 
fluidity of action of the MS during a cyber crisis. Actors in charge of cyber crisis management 
must know each other well to trust one another. To ensure continuity, coherence and overall 
consistency, each exercise could be organised on the basis of the results of the previous one. The exercises would thus test the operational level ’s ability to coordinate and exchange 
information, assess the situation, act as the computer security incident response team’s  
(CSIRTs ) interpreter with political decision -makers, and manage crisis communication with 
stakeholders. EU -CyCLONe can play a key role not only in strengthening capacity -building but 
also developing long-lasting trust among MS.  
Recommendation #3 . Support MS in the set -up of secure communication platform(s) to 
exchange with essential entities, including for informal communication, during a cyber crisis. 
While the platforms selected by MS should obviously be the result of national choices, EU -
CyCLONe could help said choices by publishing guidelines, and even comparative analyses, about the messaging systems best suited to cooperate and exchange information in complete 
confidentiality.  
Recommendation #4 . Ensure that MS national cyber crisis management  authorities, in 
coordination with the NIS Cooperation Group (
7), regularly update critical information system 
(IS) maps of essential entities in their country. To do so, they could encourage essential entities 
to send regular updates, in particular durin g IS change or update of projects. Precise maps are 
essential for cyber crisis management, enabling more effective operational coordination in the event of an incident. They contribute to a rapid reaction in the event of an incident, to qualify the 
impact,  or to prevent the consequences of the defensive actions carried out.  
Recommendation #5 . Support the organisation of media training sessions for executives of MS 
national cyber crisis management authorities, so that they can give coherent and clear updates  
on the progress of the crisis, in any type of media (press, radio, TV, social networks). As each 
 
(6) See Chapter  4 ‘Cyber crisis management best practices in the EU ’. 
(7) According to NIS2 (Article  14.4), the NIS Cooperation Group is responsible for providing strategic guidance to EU -CyCLONe and 
for exchanging information relating  to the identification of essential and important entities.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 8 MS has its own capacity needs, these communication sessions could be organised at national 
level, with content adapted to the context of the MS concerned. EU crisis communicators could 
regularly follow awareness -raising sessions on cyber issues, as well as refresher courses.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 9 1. INTRODUCTION 
 EU POLICY CONTEXT  
EU policy  and legislation  framing  cyber  crisis  management  have  evolved  significantly  in response to a 
fast-evolving  threat  landscape,  with the EU actively  engaged in shaping a comprehensive cyber  crisis  
management  framework.  The EU has adopted a proactive stance,  acknowledging  the potential  impact  
of cyber  incidents  on the internal  market,  public  security,  and society  across  MS. Strengthening 
European crisis  management  governance involves  fostering effective  cooperation amongst  operational  
actors  within  the EU, including  the creation of synergies  between national  authorities,  MS and EU 
institutions,  bodies,  agencies.  A key policy  measure was enacted  in 2016 with the NIS directive.  Taking 
account  of the many  different  crisis  response  mechanisms  across  EU institutions,  the Blueprint  
attempted  to present,  for the first time,  a possible  EU-wide  concept  to responding  to cybersecurity  
incidents  too large for one or two MS or EU institutio ns to handle.  The EU framework  further  progressed 
with key legislative  texts  including  the Cybersecurity  Act and the NIS2  directive  (2022),  which  
supersedes  the Blueprint  and underlines  the critical  need for cybersecurity preparedness  and 
effectiveness  in addressing the escalating ‘ number,  magnitude,  sophistication,  frequency,  and impact  of 
incidents ’. Most  recently,  the EU established  EU-CyCLONe,  tasked with enhancing  cooperation and 
c
oordination  between relevant  actors,  overcoming  the gap between the strategic  and technical levels,  
preparing decision- making  at the political  level and coordinating cyber  crisis  management,  situational 
assessment  and mitigation action measures  in case  of massive  cyber  incidents.  
 STUDY CONTEXT  
In the wake of the adoption of NIS2 in 2022, this study aims to identify tried and tested practices 
(best practices ) in cybersecurity crisis (cyber crisis) management at the operational level in the 
EU. It provides an understanding of the specifics of cyber crises, a concept which is understood differently in MS, and of the management thereof at the operational level. It provides insights 
into key actors, capabilities and procedures to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from this type of event.  
The EU is in  ‘an era of permacrisis and polycrisis ’ (
8). It has experienced numerous crises over 
a short amount of time, including the COVID -19 pandemic, the growing impact of climate 
change and Russia’ s war of aggression against Ukraine. The unprecedented scale of these 
crises threatens the functioning of society and requires a ‘ rapid response despite the great 
uncertainty regarding their potential evolution and the effectivene ss of available 
countermeasures ’ (9). The EU ’s role in crisis management has expanded, from facilitating 
coordination and solidarity between MS to providing rapid, flexible and cross -sectoral 
responses  (10). The EU ’s added value is  ‘higher in transboundar y crises and incidents that can 
overwhelm the response capabilities of individual MS ’ (11). As recently mentioned by the 
 
(8) European Commission (2023) , Commission c ommunication – 2023 Strategic Foresight Report: Sustainability and people’ s 
wellbeing at the heart of Europe’ s Open Strategic Autonomy , COM(2023) 376, 6 July, https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52023DC0376 . 
(9) European Commission (2022) , Strategic crisis management in the EU,  Independent expert report, Scientific Advice Mechanism, 
Scientific Opinion No  13, 22  November 2022 , p. 6, https://allea.org/wp- content/uploads/2022/11/ec_rtd_sam -crisis -management -
opinion.pdf . 
(10) Within the framework of the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, the European Commission is responsible for general 
preparedness actions  and for providing analytical reports for the IPCR arrangements under Implementing Decision (EU) 
2018/1993, recital  72 of the NIS2  directive. 
(11) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 10 Commission ’s Scientific Advice Mechanism, European crisis management governance still 
needs strengthening by fostering synergies between EUIBAs and with MS  (12). 
Cybersecurity has become an integral part of European security  (13). The increasing 
dependence on information technology and the societies ’ growing interconnection has 
increased vulnerability surfaces, in particular to cyber threats. The World Economic Forum 
considers cross -border cyberattacks as an area where risk mitigation is still in the early stages 
of development  (14). ENISA’ s Threat Landscape 2022 report shows that cybersecurity attacks 
have continued to increase, in terms of vectors, number and impact  (15). Incidents due to human 
errors should not be underestimated, as they too can lead to major disruption.  
Cyber  crises  can affect  the proper  functioning of the internal  market  and public  security  in 
several  MS or the EU as a whole  (16). The EU has worked  to develop a dedicated crisis  
management  framework,  first with the Blueprint  (17) and with key texts  such  as NIS, the 
Cybersecurity  Act and NIS2 . The objectives  of the latter  on cyber  crisis  management  include:  
• increasing the capabilities and preparedness of MS to respond to cyber crises ; 
• improving cooperation, including information sharing and coordination  between MS and 
EUIBAs to deal with cyber crises ; 
• strengthening the EU ’s capacity to complement MS action in managing cyber crises.  
NIS2  requires  MS to develop  the structures,  entities  and procedures  needed specifically  for 
cyber  crisis management.  It formalises  EU-CyCLONe,  launched informally  in 2020,  to improve 
cooperation among  MS at the operational  level,  which  is understood as the intermediary  
between  the technical  level and the strategic  level.  
ENISA’s strengthened role in cyber  crisis  management  in the EU includes  the provision  of the 
secretariat  for EU-CyCLONe,  and support  the secure exchange  of information as well as 
provide necessary  tools  to support  cooperation between  MS. 
 OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY  
This study aims to:  
• update EN ISA’s cyber crisis management knowledge base (18); 
• clarify the complexities and nuances of the notion of cyber crisis ; 
• provide an overview of the framework for cyber crisis management at the operational level in 
the EU, including the identification of key actors, highlighting their role and obligations;  
• identify best practices for cyber crisis management at operational level in the EU.  
The study is aimed at all cybersecurity stakeholders keen to improve both their understanding of and capabilities and procedures to manage cyber crises at the operational level.  
 
(12) Ibid. 
(13) European Commission (2020) , Joint communication to the European Parliament and the Council  – The EU ’s Cybersecurity Strategy 
for the Digital Decade, JOIN(2020) 18, 16 December, https://digital -strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/eus -cybersecurity -strategy -
digital -decade-0 . 
(14) World Economic Forum (2022) , The Global Risks Report 2022 (17th Edition) , p. 7, https://www.weforum.org/publications/global -
risks-report -2022/ . 
(15) ENISA (2022), ENISA Threat Landscape 2022 , October 2022 , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/enisa-threat -landscape-
2022/@@download/fullReport . 
(16) European Parliament and Council of the European Union ( 2022), Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 14 December 2022 on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the Union, amending Regulation 
(EU) No 910/2014 and Directive (EU) 2018/1972, and repealing Directive (EU) 2016/1148 (NIS  2 Directive) ( OJ L  333, 
27.12.2020, recital  69), https://eur -lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2022/2555/oj . 
(17) See footnote (1).  
(18) See ‘Annex:  ENISA’s k nowledge base’.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 11 
 SCOPE OF THE STUDY 
This study  covers  recent  evolutions  in cyber  crisis  management  at the operational  level in the EU. 
It focuses  on the following  elements.  
• The transposition of NIS2 into national legislation, especially Article 9 , which is  dedicated to 
national cyber crisis management frameworks . 
• The operational level, the meaning of which may vary among  MS. In this study, the 
operational level is understood as the cornerstone for facilitating coordination and 
understanding between the strategic and technical levels.  
• Best practices and lessons learned from MS, along with  key challenges, to adequately 
prevent, detect, respond to or recover from cyber crises at the operational level.  ‘Best 
practices’  will be defined as  ‘activities that have been shown through research and 
evaluation to be effective, efficient, sustainable and/or transferable, and to reliably lead to a 
desired result ’ (19). These best practices have been proven at the national level  or within the 
national cyber crisis management authority.  
 METHODOLOGY  
This following methodology  was used to identify  best practices  in cyber  crisis  management  at the 
operational  level in the EU. 
Task 1: Data  collection  
• A research plan was elaborated to identify relevant open sources for data collection.  
• Deep-dive desk research was conducted to collect data on cyber crisis management in the 
EU. Sources are available in Section 7 ‘ Sources ’. 
Task 2: Expert  consultation  
• An expert consultation was designed to complement open-source information on best 
practices in cyber crisis management, to gather feedback from EU -CyCLONe members.  
• A workshop, including a presentation and discussion of identified best practices for cyber 
crisis management, and complementary interviews were conducted to enrich the study ’s 
conclusions.  
• Individual interviews were conducted with a select number of EU -CyCLONe members.  
Task 3: Drafting  of deliverables  
• Data was analysed, conclusions were drawn and drafts of the study were submitted to and 
reviewed by ENISA in an iterative fashion.  
• The final report was submitted to EU -CyCLONe members for review.  
 
  
 
(19) European Commission (n.d.) , “What are ‘ good practices?’” , https://ec.europa.eu/migrant -integration/page/what -are-good-
practices_en . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 12 2. DEFINITIONS FOR CYBER 
CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT THE 
OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU 
This section sets out to define the term ‘ cyber   crisis ’. It provides a brief definition of the notion of 
crisis in general, and the factors that shape a crisis. It examines the difference between a 
cybersecurity incident, a large- scale incident and a cyber crisis. It then turns to the management 
of cyber crises, beginning with a brief definition of crisis management, exploring the different levels at which a cyber crisis can be managed. It describes the capabilities and measures 
needed to manage cyber crises at the operational level in the EU, looking at the al l-hazards 
approach and the four stages of the cyber crisis management cycle.  
 DEFINING A CYBER CRISIS  
There are several definitions of a crisis. According to ISO 22361, a crisis is an ‘ abnormal or 
extraordinary event or situation which threatens an organisation or community and requires a strategic, adaptive and timely response in order to preserve its viability and integrity ’ (
20). It can 
also broadly be defined a s ‘an extraordinary event that differs from the normal and involves 
serious disturbance or risk for disturbance of vital societal functions ’ (21). A more granular 
definition of a crisis is ‘ a serious threat to the basic structures or the fundamental values and 
norms of a system, which, under time pressure and highly uncertain circ umstances, necessitate 
making vital decisions ’ (22). Defined more comprehensively, a crisis is  ‘an event that affects 
many people and large parts of society and threatens fundamental values and functions. Crisis 
is a condition that cannot be handled with ordinary resources and organisation. A crisis is 
unexpected, far removed from the ordinary and mundane. Resolving the crisis requires 
coordinated action from several players/actors ’ (23). Factors of uncertainty, risk and potential 
for severe consequences  are essential in qualifying and measuring the severity of a crisis, in 
addition to time sensitivity and the transboundary element of crises.  
The time sensitivity factor  is important to understand the nature of a crisis. Three types of 
crisis can be distinguished:  
• a creeping crisis, or hidden latent crisis, which simmers under the radar of the authorities, 
before suddenly and unexpectedly erupting;  
• an acute crisis, which is sudden, unforeseen and can have a massive impact in a very short 
amount of time;  
• a recurring crisis , which occurs on a regular basis as part of a cycle.  
 
 
(20) Estall, H . (2023) , ‘ISO 22361:2022  – Crisis Management Guidelines: a closer look ’, Continuity Central , 
https://www.continuitycentral.com/index.php/news/business -continuity -news/8182- iso-22361- 2022- crisis- management -
guidelines -a-closer -look. 
(21) ENISA (2014), Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November, p.  26. 
(22) Ibid. 
(23) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 13 The time factor is essential for responding to crises appropriately, effectively and quickly.  For 
example, because a creeping crisis occurs over a longer period of time, there is in theory more 
room for crisis prevention measures. An acute crisis, on the other hand, occurs over a very 
short period of time, meaning priority should be given to crisi s mitigation measures.  
Another factor that helps better define a crisis is its transboundary and cross -sectoral impact. A 
transboundary crisis can be understood as crossing geographical, organisational and/or political borders. ENISA ’s work for EU -CyCLONe found that a transboundary crisis could simply be 
characterised by its tendency to escalate rapidly, transform, proliferate across multiple jurisdictions and (national) borders, affecting various sectors, policy areas and critical 
infrastructures, strainin g and even exceeding the capacity of national crisis management 
systems.  
Transborder crises can have different scopes and simultaneously affect several territories, 
jurisdictions and/or sectors, and pose major challenges for decision-makers, who must 
cooperate beyond their national structures to respond effectively  (
24). Because factors of scope 
and time sensitivity are not mutually exclusive,  a crisis can be both transboundary and 
acute, transboundary and creeping, or transboundary and recurrent.  
As such, the notion of a cyber crisis can be complex to define . This is largely due to the 
differences among MS in definitions of the thresholds whic h make a cybersecurity incident a 
crisis.  
A cybersecurity incident  refers to  ‘an event compromising the availability, authenticity, 
integrity or confidentiality of stored, transmitted or processed data or of the services offered by, 
or accessible via, netw ork and information systems ’ (25). To complement this definition, NIS2 
specifies that an incident is considered significant when it has  ‘caused or is capable of causing 
severe operational disruption of services or financial loss for the entity concerned’ and ‘has 
affected or is capable of affecting other natural or legal persons by causing considerable material or non-material damage’ (
26). 
A cyber incident becomes a large -scale cybersecurity incident  when it  ‘causes a level of 
disruption that exceeds a MS capacity to respond to it or which has a significant impact on at least two MS ’ (
27). A cyber incident therefore moves to ‘ large- scale ’ status if a MS is unable to 
take mitigating action on its own, or if more than two MS are affected.  
A large -scale cybersecurity incident can further escalate into a cyber crisis . As explained, the 
term is subject to varying definitions in MS, depending largely on the severity of the incident 
according to the MS  and the risk appetite. At the EU level, the notion of cyber crisis has often 
been defined with direct reference to the notion of (large- scale) cyber incident  since such  a 
crisis  is directly caused by a cybersecurity incident.  The scope, impact  and frequency  of the 
cyber event enables the evaluation of its severity, which is essential to escalate to the level of 
crisis. Ultimately, the transition to crisis status depends largely on a political decision to treat a 
large- scale cyber security incident as a crisis or not. This contributes to the complexity of 
defining a cyber crisis.  
 
(24) Ansell, C, Boin, A. and Keller, A. (2010) , ‘Managing transboundary crises: Identifying the building blocks of an effective response 
system ’, Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management , Vol.  18, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1468-
5973.2010.00620.x. 
(25) European Parliament and Council of EU, Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
14 December 2022 on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the Union, amending Regulation (EU) 
No 910/2014 and Directive (EU) 2018/1972, and repealing Directive (EU) 2016/1148 (NIS 2 Directive)  (OJ L  333, 27.12.2020, 
Article  6(6)) , https://eur -lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2022/2555/oj . 
(26) See footnote (25), Article  23. 
(27) See footnote (25). Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 14 The notion of cyber crisis is based on a number of EU cyber regulations and policies. NIS2 
indicates that depending on their cause and impact, a large- scale cybersecurity incident  ‘may 
escalate and turn into fully -fledged crisis  not allowing the proper functioning of the internal 
market or posing serious public security and safety risks for entities or citizens in several MS or 
the EU as a whole’ (28). Previously, the Blueprint (2017) had attempted to give a definition of 
‘cyber crisis’ by differentiating it from a cybersecurity incident, stating that  ‘a cybersecurity 
incident [could] be considered a crisis at Union level when the disruption caused by the incident 
[was] too extensive for a concerned MS to handle on its own or when it [affected] two or more 
MS with such a wide-ranging impact of technical or political significance that it [required] timely 
coordination and response at Union political level ’ (29). In addition to this transboundary 
dimension, a cyber crisis can be characterised by an abnormal and unstable situation that threatens an entity ’s strategic objectives, its reputation or its viability. The ENISA Report on 
Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management  (2014) further indicates that a cyber crisis is an 
event that strikes at the heart of an entity and that can have an impact beyond the entity 
itself (
30). 
Figure  1: Distinguishing between cyber incident, large-scale cyber incident and cyber 
crisis  (31) (32) 
 
It is thus difficult to find a common definition of the concept of cyber crisis shared by all MS and 
the EU. Within MS, the escalation from cyber incident to lar ge-scale cyber incident and finally to 
fully-fledged crisis depends largely on the risk appetite of each MS. Rather than relying on facts 
alone, declaring a cyber crisis as such at the MS level is above all a political decision linked to 
 
(28) See footnote (13). 
(29) See footnote (14). 
(30) Ibid. 
(31) ENIS A (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November, p. 27. 
(32) See footnote (17). 
Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 15 the risk appetite of the MS. The R eport on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management  
shows that escalation to the status of crisis is largely subjective, with political and 
organisational perceptions and c onstraints ‘creating’ the crisis. Here, crisis exists as an 
interpretation of the situation rather than as an absolute truth. As a result, what one actor perceives as a crisis may be perceived as daily routine by another, giving a degree of 
subjectivity to the escalation to crisis status  (
33). The escalation to crisis status depends on 
a MS’ risk appetite; beyond a certain threshold of tolerance, the incident can no longer be 
managed with the usual means:  it is then declared, and thus becomes, a crisis.  
Meanwhile, at the EU level, all MS must agree to move to crisis level based on agreed 
standard operating procedures (SOPs).   
A cyber crisis and its severity can be assessed by looking at different factors which include 
the causes , nature  and impact . Such an assessment is essential , as it should lead to the 
adoption of appropriate cyber crisis management measures.  
The causes of a cyber crisis  can be multiple and both physical and non-physical. Non-
physical causes include targeted action by malicious actors, such as a cyberattack, which may escalate into a crisis. Human errors, malfunctions and malicious actions can also 
disrupt th e functioning of network s and IS and result in a cyber crisis. Causes can also be 
found in the physical environment  (
34). As highlighted by NIS2, theft, fire, flood, 
telecommunications or power failure, unauthorised physical access or damage can all 
compromise the availability, authenticity, integrity or confidentiality of data stored, 
transmitted or processed or services offered by or accessible through networks and IS  (35). 
Consequently, the  hybrid nature of the cyber domain poses particular challenges to 
determining the origins of a cyber crisis, as it combines a ‘ mixture of conventional and 
unconventional, military and non-military, overt and covert actions that can be used in a coordinated manner by state or non- state actors to achieve specific objectives while 
remaining below the threshold of formally declared warfare’ (
36). This hybrid nature can act 
as a brake to the escalation of a cyber incident into a crisis, due to the potentially political 
connotations of the term and the difficulty of assessing both the physical and non-physical 
origins of the crisis.  
A cyber crisis can be considered as transborder . Cyberspace is made up of physical 
assets scattered across different countries, but which remain (inter)dependent  (37). It knows 
no geographical boundaries, meaning that a cyber crisis has a serious potential to spread 
acros s several entities, jurisdictions or territories. In addition, every sector now has a cyber 
element, which can lead to a cyber crisis spreading beyond a specific sector. For example, a cyber crisis originating in the energy sector could very well affect the transport sector via 
its IS . ENISA’ s work for EU -CyCLONe found that  EU cyber crises could be considered 
as potentially  transborder by definition, as they  transcend traditional political, 
functional and sectoral boundaries within and between MS  (
38) (39). 
The impact  of a cyber incident is a determining factor in the escalation to a large-scale 
cybersecurity incident or a crisis. Impact can be defined by the number of entities affected, 
whether a number of individuals, companies/organisations, sectors or MS. The type of 
 
(33) ENISA (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November.  
(34) Physical damage can have repercussions in the virtual world: for example, a flood or fire can disrupt servers, causing a cyber 
incident that can turn into a crisis. One such example of a cyber incident  caused by physical damage occurred in France in 
March 2021, when a fire broke out in a data centre, causing major disruptions on the servers.  
(35) See footnote 13, recital  79. 
(36) European Commission (2016) , ‘FAQ: Joint Framework on countering hybrid threats ’, April 2016, 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEMO_16_1250 . 
(37) ENISA (2 018), Good practices on interdependencies between OES and DSPs (November 2018) , p. 8, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/good-practices -on-interdependencies -between- oes-and-dsps . 
(38) See footnote (37) . 
(39) Prevezianou, M.F. (2021) , ‘WannaCry as a Creeping Crisis ’, in Boin, A., Ekengren, M.  and Rhinard, M. (eds) , Understanding the 
Creeping Crisis , Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, pp.  37–50, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3- 030-70692- 0_3. WannaCry, the first 
ever case of cyber 
cooperation at the  
EU level, a creeping crisis?  
In May 2017, the 
WannaCry ransomware 
rapidly spread to more 
than 230 000 computers 
in 150 countries, encrypting files on the 
hard drives of Windows 
systems, preventing users 
from accessing them and demanding a ransom to 
decrypt the files. It was a 
cross -sector propagation 
that affected several 
users in several countries, 
impacting thousands of 
operating systems  (
35). 
WannaCry was 
considered a large-scale 
cyber  security incident 
and was not elevated to 
the status of a crisis . At 
the time, only the technical level of cyber 
crisis management was in 
place.  
WannaCry could be 
considered a large-scale creeping cybersecurity 
incident  because the 
cyberthreat was hidden in plain sight, evolving 
gradually over time on computers around the 
world in a non-linear 
pattern  (
39). Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 16 entities affected and whether they  operate services considered vital to the functioning of the 
nation is crucial. Particular attention is therefore paid to services and activities defined by NIS2 
as essential  (energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructure, health, drinking wa ter, 
waste water, digital infrastructure, ICT service management, public administration and space) and important  (postal and courier services, waste management, manufacturing, chemicals, 
production, food, manufacturing, digital suppliers  and research)  (
40). If these services are 
affected, the incident is likely to reach crisis level, given the potential to disrupt vital services.  
There are therefore different types of cyber crisis, with different degrees of complexity. This 
diversity, together with the varying capabilities of each MS to combat cyber crises, influences 
their classification of a cyber incident as a crisis. The lack of common indicators for defining a 
‘cyber crisis’ at the EU level makes it both complex and sensitive to escalate a large-scale 
cybersecurity incident into a full -fledged crisis.  
 DEFINING CYBER  CRISIS  MANAGEMENT  
This study builds on previous work by ENISA, which defines crisis management as  ‘an 
institutional and organisational design process ’ (41), a ‘[ broad] structure [that] encompasses 
decision-makers [with specific roles and actions ]’ (42). In general terms, crisis management is 
understood as  ‘making and effecting difficult decisions under difficult circumstances ’ (43). 
The EU ’s crisis management competences have grown significantly  in sectors such as civil 
protection, terrorism, health, the environment, critical infrastructures and cybercrime (44). While 
national security remains the prerogative of MS , the EU plays a growing  role in 
coordinating and improving cooperation between MS in the event of a crisis. The EU has developed the capacity to support MS overwhelmed by a disaster or crisis, to manage 
transboundary crises and to provide assistance in the event of a crisis outside the EU  (
45). 
Crisis management at the EU level involves a highly complex and interwoven system of 
actors, structures and processes operating at many levels.  
Cyber crisis management is part of a wider crisis management framework.  While some 
consider that every type of existing crisis has a cyber element, others argue that cyber crisis 
management should be seen as a stand-alone practice. These approaches are not mutually 
exclusive and could even be more effective when combined . Cyber crisis management can 
be understood as the management of a crisis which has a cyber origin or a significant cyber component.  
At the EU level, both approaches exist for cyber crisis management . Cyber crisis 
management in the EU is handled by different EU institutions and agencies , depending on the 
type of crisis encountered.  The EU’s high- level (or generic) crisis management mechanisms can 
be used and applied in the context of cyber crises specifically, but are not limited to them. This is the case, f or example, of the Council’ s Integrated Policy Response Capability (IPCR) 
Mechanism, the European Commission ’s ARGUS system or the European External Action 
Service’s ( EEAS) Crisis Response Mechanism (CRM)  (
46) (47). Overall, the cross-sectoral 
nature of crises means that multiple actors from different  sectors must cooperate and 
 
(40) See footnote (13), Article  16. 
(41) ENISA  (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November. 
(42) Ibid. 
(43) Ibid. 
(44) SAPEA (20 22), Strategic crisis management in the European Union,  Evidence Review Report No 11, https://allea.org/wp-
content/uploads/2022/11/crisis -management -report.pdf . 
(45) Ibid. 
(46) Ibid. 
(47) See Chapter 3.1 ‘Overview of the structure of cyber security crisis management at the operational level in the EU ’. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 17 share information, and the transboundary nature of cyber crises is a perfect 
illustration (48). 
The EU has long been working on a specific legislative framework for cyber crisis 
management . The aim is for MS to comply with minimum requirements for cybersecurity 
resilience, which includes improving cyber crisis management capabilities. Three major pie ces 
of legislation have structured the development of cybersecurity crisis management, namely NIS, 
the Cybersecurity Act and, most recently, NIS2 (49). In particular, NIS2 introduces new rules to 
improve the way the EU prevents, manages and responds to large- scale cyber security 
incidents and crises by establishing clear responsibilities, proper planning and better 
cooperation within the EU  (50). However , even with the development of measures 
specifically designed for cyber crisis management, the latter remains embedded in the policies and plans of broader crisis management structures, both at the national and EU 
level s. 
The management of a cyber crisis i nvolves public and private stakeholders from the civilian , 
law enforcement  and defence sectors,  depending on the nature and impact of the cyber 
crisis . These actors operate at different levels . 
• Organisational and corporate level . Critical entities affected by a cyber crisis are key 
players in managing cyber crises. Their cooperation and information are essential to ensure that situational awareness is shared in a timely manner and that mitigation measures are 
properly implemented.  They also play a crucial role in crisis prevention, for example by 
communicating the mapping of their ISs to the national authorities responsible for crisis 
management, and must be supported to increase their resilience to cyber crises.  
• Sectoral level . Crisis management can also follow a sectoral approach, incorporating a cyber 
element for each sector considered critical. This can be envisaged for better coordination 
and cooperation between actors, providing a cyber crisis management plan tailored to each 
sector. In this case, NIS2 can serve as a basis since it defines the entities in the sectors 
considered ‘essential ’ and ‘important ’ (
51) because they provide vital services to the nation.  
• Regional level . Within MS, regional authorities can be involved in managing cyber crises, 
among others , because of their proximity to the entities affected in the event of a crisis.  
• National level . MS have primary responsibility for cybersecurity, for crisis management, and 
for the management of cyber crises. Consequently, MS must take the necessary measures 
to ensure the protection of essential national security interests and to safeguard public 
order and public security  (52). While cyber crisis management can be a politically sensitive 
issue and remains a national competence, MS often choose to work together through 
coordination mechanisms and networks, with varying degrees of formalisation (53). NIS2 
now requires MS to draw up a cyber crisis management plan and set up national crisis management authorities.  
• EU level . NIS2 ’s definition of a cyber crisis implies that the affected MS is either unable to 
respond to the situation alone, or that the crisis affects at least one other MS. The EU plays 
an essential role in preventing and mitigating cyber crises, in particular by establishing 
common benchmarks which contribute to raising the European level of resilience to cyber 
crises and by strengthenin g MS crisis management capabilities and improving collective 
situational awareness  (
54). 
 
(48) ENISA (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November. 
(49) The Blueprint (2017) was also a key policy initiative that helped refine the definition of a cyber crisis, although it is now outdated.  
(50) European Commission (n.d.) , ‘Directive on measures for a high common level of  cybersecurity across the Union (NIS2 
directive) – FAQs ’, https://digital -strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/faqs/directive- measures -high- common- level-cybersecurity -across -
union- nis2-directive- faqs. 
(51) Essential entities include the energy, transport, finance, banking, health, drinking water, waste water, digital infrastructure, ICT 
service management, public administration and space sectors. Important entities include postal and c ourier services, waste 
management, manufacturing, chemicals, production, food, manufacturing, digital suppliers and research. (NIS2 d irective).  
(52) See footnote (13), recital  9. 
(53) Ibid. 
(54) European Commission, ‘ FAQ: Joint Framework on countering hybrid threats ’, April 2016.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 18 • International level . Cyber crises can go beyond the borders of MS and involve non -EU 
countries, requiring international intervention to resolve the situation. Bilateral agreements 
can be concluded between MS and non -EU countries directly, or between the EU and non -
EU countries or other regional organisations worldwide. The cyber diplomacy toolbox, for 
example, was created to provide ‘ an appropriate framework for a common EU diplomatic 
response to malicious cyber activities in order to mitigate and/or deter potential cyber attackers from harming the political, security and economic interests of the European 
Union’ (
55), beyond the EU’ s borders.  
Different actors from different sectors and levels can be involved in the management of cyber 
crises. This study focuses specifically on the EU level . 
In the event of a cyber crisis, MS and the relevant EUIBAs must cooperate ‘ to properly 
coordinate the response across the EU ’ (56) at three different levels : the strategic, operational 
and technical levels  (57). 
• The strategic level is responsible for the strategic and political management of both the cyber 
and non-cyber aspects of a crisis. Actors include MS ministers responsible for 
cybersecurity, the European Council  and its President , the Presidency of the Council of the 
European Union and the Council of the E uropean Union, the European Commission, 
including the President or the delegated Vice-President/Commissioner and the EEAS, 
including the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy  (58). 
• The operational level focuses on preparing decision -making at the strategic level, 
coordinating cyber cris is management, a nd situational awareness, impact 
assessment and mitigation measures.  It should be noted that the definition of the 
‘operational ’ level may vary from one MS to another, in some cases corresponding to the 
technical level. In this publication, the operational level is defined as the cornerstone for 
strengthening cooperation between the various MS and EU institutions , and for 
facilitat ing coordination between the strategic and technical levels.  EU-CyCLONe 
was established precisely to fill this gap (59). 
• The technical level  involves incident handling during a cyber crisis and incident monitoring 
and surveillance, including continuous analysis of threats and risks. Actors include the 
CSIRTs Network, national CSIRTs, the European Commission, EEAS, the Computer 
Emergency Response Team for the EU institutions, bodies and agencies, ENISA and the 
European Cybercrime Centre  of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement 
Cooperation  (60). 
  
 
(55) De Thomas Colatin, S. (2020) , ‘Si vis cyber pacem, para sanctiones: the EU Cyber Diplomacy Toolbox in action’,  CCDCOE , 
https://ccdcoe.org/library/publications/si -vis-cyber- pacem -para- sanctiones -the-eu-cyber- diplomacy -toolbox -in-action/ . 
(56) See footnote (13), recital  69. 
(57) ENISA (2016), Strategies for incident response and cyber crisis cooperation, 25 August . 
(58) See footnote (1).  
(59) See footnote 13, Articles  9 and 16.  
(60) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 19 Table  1: Strategic, operational and technical levels of cyber crisis management  (61) (62) 
 Actors  Responsibilities  
Strategic level  • MS ministers  responsible  
for cybersecurity  
• President  of the 
European Council 
• Presidency  of the Council 
• President  or the 
delegated Vice-
President/Commissioner  
of the European  
Commission 
• High Representative of 
the Union  for Foreign 
Affairs  and Security  
Policy  • Strategi c and political 
management  of both the cyber  
and non-cyber  aspects  of the 
crisis  
Operational level  • EU-CyCLONe  • Ensure enhanced cooperation 
and coordination  
• Bridge the gap between the 
strategic  and technical  levels  
• Prepare  decision -making at the 
political  level 
• Coordinate cyber  crisis  
management,  situational 
assessment  and mitigation 
action measures  
Technical level  • CSIRTs  Network  (63) • Incident  handling  during  the 
cyber  crisis  
• Incident  monitoring and 
surveillance,  including  continuous  
analysis  of threats  and risks 
 
Managing a cyber crisis involves a significant number of actors.  As ENISA’ s 2016 
Strategies for incident response and cyber crisis cooperation report points out,  ‘the key in 
effective cyber crisis coordination is the shared responsibility and comprehensive 
approach among the stakeholders’  (64). In the EU, the question of who is responsible largely 
depends on the level(s) at which the cyber crisis occurs. This study however focuses on the operational level , as do the best practices identified in the next chapter.  
A variety of capabilities and measures can be put in place to manage cyber crises. These need 
to be organised in a comprehensive way  to ensure successful cyber crisis management. 
Indeed, in the cyber domain, crisis management involves  ‘capabilities to adequately prevent, 
 
(61) See footnote (13).  
(62) ENISA  (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November. 
(63) CSIRTs Network (n.d.) , official website , https://csirtsnetwork.eu/ . 
(64) ENISA  (2016) , Strategies for incident response and cyber crisis cooperation, 25 August . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 20 detect, respond to, recover from or mitigate the impact of incidents ’ (65). Since threats can have 
different origins, management measures should be based on an all -hazards approach . This 
approach aims  ‘to protect network s, ISs and the physical environment of those systems from 
events such as theft, fire, flood, telecommunication or power failures, or unauthorised physical 
access and damage which could compromise the availability, authenticity, integrity or 
confidentiality of stored, transmitted or processed data or of the services offered by, or 
accessible via, network and information systems ’ (66). The all-hazards approach offers a 
comprehensive approach to cyber crisis management, taking into account the m ultiple potential 
causes of cyber crises, which can originate in both the physical and non-physical worlds.  
Taking into account the origins of cyber crises is important to shaping the adequate response, 
but it is equally important to integrate certain key steps in the development of an effective and 
coherent cyber crisis management strategy. T he ENISA Report on Cyber Crisis Management 
and Cooperation  (2014) highlights five key tasks to conduct crisis management in order to 
resolve any kind of crisis situation. These tasks overlap and flow into each other and include:  
• sense- making , which involves finding out what is happening and why ; 
• meaning -making , which involves conveying an understanding of the situation to others so 
that they understand why it is a crisis and why certain actions must be taken; 
• decision -making , which involves taking action to resolve the situation using available 
resources, taking i nto account logistical, time, legal and democratic constraints, ensuring 
that the objectives of resolving the crisis are achieved at all levels, from strategic to 
operational and technical; 
• termination , with decision -makers deciding that the crisis is over  and that the crisis 
management organisation can be dissolved; t he situation at this point may not have 
completely returned to normal, but what remains can be managed using non- crisis 
measures ; 
• learning and reform , with investigations and potential changes in policies and practices, a 
crucial step which offers an opportunity to improve and correct the flaws in the system revealed by the crisis.  
These five tasks form the basis for the management of any type of crisis,  as they enable 
crucial questions to be tackled by authorities responsible for crisis management. Each task 
brings its own challenges for the organisation of crisis management and can be used to guide 
the design of crisis management operations  (
67). With regards to cyber crisis management 
specifically, the ENISA Report on Cyber Crisis Management and Cooperation  (2014) proposes 
using the challenges associated with the five tasks as an analytical roadmap to guide the 
development of cyber crisis management operations  (68). These challenges are summarised in 
Figure  2. 
  
 
(65) See footnote (13), recital  120. 
(66) Ibid, recital  79. 
(67) ENISA  (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November. 
(68) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 21 Figure  2: Cyber crisis management challenges (69) 
 
These challenges should be taken into consideration when designing comprehensive 
cyber crisis management measures . The tasks and challenges can then be used to develop 
and improve best practices at each phase of the cyber crisis management cycle, namely prevention, preparedness, response and recovery (
70). All these phases can include several 
of the tasks depicted in Figure  2 (sense- making, meaning- making, decision -making, termination, 
learning).  
The four phases are detailed below  (71). 
• Phase 1 – Prevention.  This aims to better prevent and reduce the risk of cyber crises 
occurring and to anticipate and minimise  their potential  effects should they arise. Preventive 
measures are taken before a crisis occurs, but also afterwards as they allow lessons to be 
learned for  the management of future crises.  
• Phase 2 – Preparedness.  This aims to improve the management of crises by developing 
plans to support response operations. This includes activities such as setting up a resilient 
crisis organisation, maintaining the confidence of the ecosystem, prioritising the critical 
activities affected or ensuring that responders know how to act by undergoing training and 
exercises. Preparedness measures are taken before a crisis occurs.  
• Phase 3 – Response . This aims to stem the cyber crisis and prevent further damage. At the 
EU level, response is based on effective technical, operational and strategic cooperation 
between MS and EUIBA s. An effective and safe response involves activating 
predetermined measures. These measures are taken during crises.  
• Phase 4 – Recovery.  This aims to enable quick recovery by taking measures when a crisis is 
over or its end is in sight to return to a level of security and activity that is normal or even higher than before the crisis. Thi s phase covers restoration of affected systems and 
arrangements or organising lessons learned to better prevent, respond to and mitigate future crises. Such measures are taken after crises occur.  
 
(69) ENISA  (2014) , Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November. 
(70) See Chapter 4 ‘ Cyber crisis management best practices at operational level in the EU’ for more information.  
(71) Ibid. 
Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 22 These four phases should always be taken into account for effective management of 
cyber crises, along with the all-hazard approach , to provide a comprehensive approach  
to cyber crisis managemen t. 
Key takeaways  
• The notion of a cyber crisis is complex, not least because it leaves room for a degree of 
subjectivity: a cyber incident may be considered as a crisis in one MS but not necessarily in another. While a given MS may be unable to respond to the situation and therefore require the 
activation of exceptional measures, another may well have the capacity to manage the incident 
without having to elevate it to crisis status. Risk assessment is therefore inextricably linked to the notion of cyber crisis and depends largely on the level of risk that each MS is prepared to 
tolerate.  
 
• At the EU level, this brings about numerous challenges. The development of clear indicators 
or decision mechanisms  for escalation to crisis status at the EU level, taking into 
consideration both national capabilities and priorities, could help alleviate some of those 
challenges.  
 
• The causes , nature  and impact  of a cyber crisis can support the assessment of the crisis and 
its severity and influence the selection and adoption of appropriate measures for cyber crisis management.  
 
• With NIS2, MS have to develop a specific framework for cyber crisis management . However, 
because cyber crises tend to have a transboundary  nature, any cyber crisis management 
framework must remain part of overarching crisis management for overall coherence.  
 
• The management of a cyber crisis involves a variety of actors at the  
organisation /company , sectoral , regional , national  and EU levels . It is managed at the 
strategic , operational  and technical  levels , with the operational level playing  a key role in 
bridging the gap between the other two levels, ensuring information is shared across all levels, greater cooperation and coordination between all relevant stakeholders.  
 
• Cyber crisis management should take into account the four phases of the  cyber crisis 
management cycle, i.e. prevention, preparedness , response and recovery.  These four 
phases should be framed by an all-hazard approach , since threats can have many different 
origins.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 23 3. STRUCTURE AND ACTORS 
OF CYBER CRISIS 
MANAGEMENT AT THE 
OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU 
This section gives an overview of t he EU ’s complex cybersecurity ecosystem of actors, 
structures and mechanisms. It first outlines the structure of cyber crisis management at the 
operational level in the EU, then describes the roles and obligations of the main EU actors in 
cyber crisis management  at the operational level, namely ENISA, MS  and EU-CyCLONe.  
 OVERVIEW OF THE STRUCTURE OF CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT  
AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  
Due to the transboundary nature of cyber crises, a vast network of public actors participates in their management across the EU, leading to a highly complex and overlapping system of actors, 
structures and processes operating within the cyber domain. In th is context, NIS2 aims to bring 
about a more coordinated approach through greater cooperation between MS and relevant 
EUIBAs at the technical, operational and strategic levels  (
72). 
Several EUIBAs are involved in cyber crisis management at all levels.  These include the 
European Commission and the EEAS, whose work is mainly at the strategic level.  The 
Computer Emergency Response Team for the EU institutions  (CERT -EU), bodies and agencies 
is a CSIRTs Network member and is responsible for EUIBAs.  The European Union Agency for 
Law Enforcement Cooperation is responsible for the fight against cybercrime through  its 
European Cybercrime Centre, through the Law Enforcement Emergency Response Protocol 
and within the Joint Cyberspace Action Task Force.  
EU organisations responsible specifically for cyber crisis management at the strategic, 
operational, technical levels include,  for instance:  
• at the strategic level, the Horizontal Working Party on Cyber Issues or the Committee of 
Permanent Representatives ; 
• at the operational level, EU -CyCLONe  (73); 
• at the technical level, the CSIRTs Network.  
A lot has changed for cyber crisis management in the EU since ENISA’ s report on EU common 
crisis management practices and their applicability to cyber crises (2015). At the time, the EU 
did not yet have its own legislative and operational framework dedicated to cyber crisis 
management. Instead, it relied on several crisis management mechanisms,  which follow the 
guiding principle of complementarity and continue to apply today to cyber crises . 
 
(72) See footnote (13), recital  69. 
(73) See Chapter  3.4 ‘Role and obligations of the European Cyber Crisis Liaison Organisation Network (EU -CyCLONe) in cyber crisis 
management at the operational level in the EU ’. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 24 • The Council ’s IPCR , to coordinate the policy response to cross -sectoral crises and cyber 
crises. It can be activated by institutional cybersecurity actors in the event of an EU -wide 
crisis with a cybersecurity dimension.  
• The European Commission ’s ARGUS system,  an internal early warning communication 
system which provides a specific coordination process that can be activated in the event of 
a multi -sector crisis.  
• The EEAS CRM , to provide a coordinated and synergistic response to crises and 
emergencies of an external nature or with an external dimension. It can be activated if a 
cyber crisis has a Common Foreign and Security Policy or Common Defence Policy 
dimension, for example  impacting EU or MS national security interests.  
The EU has since worked to develop an appropriate crisis management framework specifically 
for cybersecurity. While continuing to build on broader existing crisis management frameworks 
and integrate new initiatives, the EU now has  specific cybersecurity legislation . This includes 
the Cybersecurity Act  and the NIS directives,  which shaped European cybersecurity by 
introducing obligations and relevant sanctions, introducing mechanisms to better manage cyber 
crises in the EU and strengthening ENISA ’s role and capabilities in this field.  
 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF ENISA IN CYBER CRISIS 
MANAGEMENT AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU 
The Cybersecurity Act and NIS2 have significantly strengthened ENISA’ s mandate. One of the 
agency ’s strategic objectives, reaffirmed by the Agency Single Programming Document 2023 –
2025, is to enable effective cooperation amongst operational actors within the EU in case of large- scale cyber incidents, in particular  by developing tools and methodologies for 
effective cyber crisis management  (
74). Among other things, ENISA serves as an information 
hub, enabling all actors involved at the EU level to collaborate and respond to large- scale cyber 
incidents and crises by  (75): 
• enhancing and improving incident response capabilities and readiness across the EU through 
the CSIRT Network ; 
• enabling effective European cybersecurity crisis management at the operational level via EU -
CyCLONe  (76); 
• ensuring coordination in cybersecurity crisis management among relevant EUIBAs ; 
• improving the maturity and capabilities of operational communities (CSIRT Network, EU -
CyCLONe and EUIBAs) including cooperation with law enforcement authorities ; 
• contributing to preparedness, sharing situational awareness, coordinating response and 
recovery from large-scale cyber incidents and crises in different communities ; 
• supporting the evolution of an EU joint response by enabling the deployment of EU -level 
proposals.  
NIS2 provides ENISA with new tasks,  including  (77): 
• developing and maintaining a European vulnerability registry ; 
• providing the Secretariat of EU -CyCLONE ; 
• publishing an annual report on the state of cybersecurity in the EU ; 
• supporting the organisation of peer reviews between MS ; 
 
(74) ENISA (2023), ENISA Single Programming Document 2023– 2025, p. 22, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/corporate-
documents/enisa- single- programming- report -2023- 2025 . 
(75) ENISA (n.d.) , ‘Cyber Crisis Management ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/corporate- documents/enisa- single-
programming- report -2023- 2025 . 
(76) See Chapter 3.4 ‘Role and obligations of the European Cyber Crisis Liaison Organisation Network (EU -CyCLONe) in cyber crisis 
management at the operational level in the EU’. 
(77) ENISA (2016), ‘ NIS directive ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cybersecurity -policy/nis -directive- new. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 25 • creating and maintaining a registry for entities providing cross -border services (DNS service 
providers, TLD name registries, entities providing domain name registration services, cloud 
computing service providers and data centre providers).  
NIS2 makes ENISA responsible for supporting the coordination of  cyber crises in the EU by 
advising and assisting EU -CyCLONe, which supports the coordinated management of large-
scale cybersecurity incidents and crises at the operational level (78). The agenc y provides EU -
CyCLONe with a s ecretariat, but also with the infrastructure and tools necessary to ensure 
effective cooperation among MS  (79). ENISA therefore contributes to improved sharing of 
situational awareness at the operational level across the EU, thereby enhancing the 
management of large- scale cyber incidents and crises in the EU.  
Finally, ENISA plays a key role in implementing the NIS directives by providing assistance 
to the MS on its transposition, for instance with Article 9 of NIS2  on national cyber crisis 
management frameworks, and by organising exercises.  
 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF MS AND COOPERATION MECHANISMS 
FOR CYBER CRISIS MANAGEMENT AT T HE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN 
THE EU 
MS cyber crisis management procedures are integrated into their own general national crisis 
management frameworks  (80). A variety of actors are therefore in charge of cyber crisis 
management at the operational level within MS . They are responsible for liaising between 
the strategic level, often represented by the national crisis management structure, and the technical level, embodied by the appointed CSIRTs Network member  (
81). 
These actors include ‘National cybersecurity authorities’  (the exact terminology varies from 
one MS to another), which tend to be the government agency responsible for cybersecurity, and to be in the lead for national cybersecurity efforts at the technical, operational and sometimes 
strategic levels . These authorities are represented in EU -CyCLONe in cyber crisis management 
at the operational level in the EU by EU-CyCLONe Executives,  i.e. heads of n ational 
cybersecurity authorities and EU-CyCLONe Officers , i.e. experts in crisis management and/or 
international relations supporting the decision- makers, prior to and during large- scale incident or 
crisis situations  (
82). 
The majority of MS rely on a comprehensive national crisis management structure which can be deployed regardless of the origin or nature of the crisis, including cyber. A few MS have 
developed specific frameworks and structures for cyber crisis management. A high degree of 
centralisation of cyber crisis management is beneficial in terms of speed and efficiency of 
decision-making and access to information, but can exclude important stakeholders and 
overburden certain institutions. Conversely, a decentralised approach is likely t o offer flexibility 
and the ability to adapt to changing needs, but has the disadvantage of hampering government -
wide coordination efforts  (
83). 
Much of the current work to improve the management of cyber crises at the EU level has 
focused on helping MS to build up their capabilities  in this area, preventing crises and 
preparing MS to deal with them should they arise. NIS2 impacts the organisation of cyber 
 
(78) See Chapter 3.4 ‘Role and obligations of the European Cyber Crisis Liaison Organisation Network (EU -CyCLONe) in cyber crisis 
management at the operational level in the EU’.  
(79) See footnote (77).  
(80) See footnote (77).  
(81) CSIRTs Network (n.d.) , official website , https://csirtsnetwork.eu/ . 
(82) ENISA (2021), ‘ EU Member States test rapid Cyber Crisis Management ’, press release, 19 May,  
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/enisa- news/eu- member- states -test-rapid- cyber- crisis- management . 
(83) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 26 crisis management within MS, as it dictates the development of National cyber crisis 
management frameworks . 
In this respect, Article  9 of NIS2  extends the obligations of MS in the management of cyber 
crises. By 2024, MS will have to (84): 
• designate or establish one or more cyber crisis management authorities competent for the 
management of large- scale cybersecurity and crises ; 
• equip such cyber c risis management authorities with the appropriate resources to carry out 
their mission in line with general national framework for crisis management ; 
• identify capabilities, assets and procedures to be deployed in case of a crisis ; 
• adopt a national large-sc ale cybersecurity incident and crisis response plan highlighting 
objectives and arrangements for the management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents and crises, including:  
• o bjectives of national preparedness measures and activities , 
• tasks and responsibil ities of cyber crisis management authorities , 
• cyber crisis management procedures, how they integrate into general national 
crisis management frameworks and channels for information exchange, 
• n ational preparedness measures (including exercises and training  programme s), 
• n ational procedures and agreements between the competent national authorities 
and bodies to ensure the effective participation and support of MS in the coordinated management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents and crises at the 
EU level.  
For cyber crisis management at the operational level, MS have benefited from EU-CyCLONe 
since 2020; this was formalised by NIS2 in January 2023.  
 ROLE AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE  EUROPEAN CYBER CRISIS 
LIAISON ORGANISATION NETWORK IN CYBER CRISIS MANAGEME NT 
AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE EU  
EU-CyCLONe acts as the key intermediary between the technical and strategic levels during large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises. Launched in 2020 and formalised in 2023, it 
supports decision- making at the strategic level while improving cooperation  at the operational 
level through the regular exchange of information between MS  (
85). 
EU-CyCLONe plays a central role in the European cyber crisis management landscape,  
encompassing representations from both the MS and EUIBAs . It is composed of 
representatives of the cyber crisis management authorities of the MS and the European 
Commission, and its secretariat is provided by ENISA  (86). It is chaired by the MS holding the 
Presidency of the E uropean Union (87). 
Article  16 of NIS2 defines the tasks of EU -CyCLONE:  
• to increase the level of preparedness of the management of large- scale cybersecurity 
incidents and crises ; 
• to develop a shared situational awareness for large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises ; 
• to assess the consequences and impact of relevant large- scale cybersecurity incidents and 
crises and propose possible mitigation measures ; 
 
(84) See footnote (13). 
(85) ENISA (n.d.) , ‘EU-CyCLONe ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/incident -response/cyclone . 
(86) Ibid. 
(87) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 27 • to coordinate the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises and support 
decision-making at political level in relation to such incidents and crises ; 
• to discuss, upon the request of a MS, national large- scale cybersecurity incident and crisis 
response plans referred to in A rticle  9(4) of NIS2.  
In short, EU -CyCLONe enables rapid cyber crisis management coordination in case of a large-
scale cross-border cybersecurity incidents or crises in the EU by providing timely information 
sharing and situational awareness among competent authorities. The group supports the 
cooperation among MS, in particular through the regular exchange of information between and 
among MS and EUIBAs  (88). 
 
  
 
(88) Ibid. Key takeaways  
• At the EU level, several EU institutions and EUIBAs  are involved in crisis 
management at the strategic, operational and technical levels,  and various crisis 
management mechanisms are available (IPCR, ARGUS, CRM). Thes e actors and 
mechanisms can be used for the management of cyber crises.  
 
• The EU has a complex cybersecurity ecosystem of actors, structures and 
mechanisms.  The transboundary nature of cyber crises means a vast network of 
public actors participate in crisis management across the EU, leading to a ‘highly 
complex and overlapping system of actors, structures and processes operating within 
the cyber domain’ .  
 
• The EU has developed a crisis management framework specifically dedicated to 
the management of cyber crises,  including through the Cybersecurity Act, NIS and 
particularly NIS2. This framework is part of broader existing crisis management frameworks, which include high -level mechanisms such as IPCR, ARGUS or CRM.  
 
• NIS2 (2022) aims to bring about a more coordinated approach through greater 
cooperation  between MS and relevant EU institutions and EUIBAs at all levels.  
 
• With regard to the operational level of cyber crisis management in the EU, NIS2 will have the following impacts:  
 
• an enhanced role for ENISA in cyber crisis management;  
• new obligations for MS, among which the development of specific cyber crisis 
management plans and the identification of a cyber  crisis management national 
authority;  
• positioning EU -CyCLONe as a key player for cyber crisis management at the 
operational level in the EU, supporting cooperation and coordination between 
actors and facilitating information exchange.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 28 4. CYBER  CRISIS  
MANAGEMENT  BEST  
PRACTICES  AT THE 
OPERATIONAL LEVEL IN THE 
EU 
This section presents 15 best practices in cyber crisis management at the operational level in 
the EU. Each of these best practices is in line with the provisions of NIS2, particularly Article  9 
‘National cyber crisis management frameworks ’ and Article  16 ‘European cyber crisis l iaison 
organisation network (EU -CyCLONe) ’. These best practices are all established, tested and 
approved in at least one M S or at the EU level, and have been the subject of public 
communication. Each best practice contains a concrete example of application by a MS, an 
analysis of its contribution to cyber crisis management at the operational level in the EU and of 
the way forward, and is linked to NIS2 objectives. T his structure provides food for thought to 
entities seeking to improve their cyber crisis management practices, including in the framework 
of the implementation of NIS2.  
The management of cyber crises can be broken down into different phases.  The Blueprint 
(2017) breaks down the crisis management lifecycle into four phases: prevention, 
preparedness, response and recovery  (89). 
Figure  3: Cyber crisis management lifecycle  
 
 
(89) See footnote (1).  
Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 29 The operational level of cyber crisis management is central to the first two phases of the 
cycle, i.e. prevention and preparedness, as it is particularly concerned with threat 
analysis, situation assessment and mitigation measures. It is directly relevant for the 
other two phases as the crucial interface between the strategic and technical levels.  
For the purposes of this study,  ‘best practices’  are understood as  ‘activities that have been 
shown through research and evaluation to be effective, efficient, sustainable and/or transferable, and to reliably lead to a desired result ’ (
90). 
 PHASE 1  – PREVENTION 
The prevention phase aims to support the EU and its MS to improve the prevent ion and reduce 
the risk of cyber crises occurring and anticipate ways to minimise their effects. Preventive 
measures include reinforcing protection and erecting barriers to prevent malicious actors from 
attacking an IT system, thereby avoiding a crisis. Preve ntive measures are taken before a crisis 
occurs, but also afterwards as a result of lessons learned from past crises.  
Table  2: Summary of best practices for Phase 1  – Prevention 
Phase 1 – Prevention  
BP #1 . Adoption of a national definition of ‘ cyber crisis ’, taking into account its 
transboundary dimension  
BP # 2. Development of information security standards specific to the national 
public sector, to be reviewed and updated regularly  
BP # 3. Foster national initiatives which promote the creation of prevention 
programmes such as centralised DDoS mitigation programmes  
 
Best practice #1: Adoption of a national definition of ‘ cyber crisis’, taking into account its 
transboundary dimension . 
• Example . Several MS define a ‘cyber crisis’ by the major impact on the operations of the 
organisations affected, the need for prompt decision-making and the ineffectiveness of 
usual incident handling proced ures. The Dutch definition focuses more closely on the 
geographical dimension. The Netherlands identifies eight basic elements which characterise a cyber crisis in its National Crisis Plan Digital (2022)  (
90F91). Most of these 
criteria refer to the transboundary nature of such a crisis: a ‘ technical failure inside or 
outside the Netherlands ’, an ‘involvement of a statewide or other actor ’, ‘cross -regional 
effects ’ (including physical ones), and  ‘effect of the cris is abroad’. All these elements 
suggest an international coordination effort to respond to the cyber crisis.  
• Analysis and way forward . The definition of ‘cyber crisis’ varies among MS. Most only 
consider the consequences on their territory, to the detriment of the cross -border effects. A 
joint understanding of the transboundary nature of this type of event could contribute to a clearer perception of the issues at stake and the resources to be put in place for more 
efficient management at the EU level. On the basis of NIS2, which points out that a cyber 
crisis could pose ‘ serious public security and safety risks for entities or citizens in several 
MS’, the homogenisation of national definitions highlighting the potentially foreign origin 
and/or consequences would facilitate better European coordination and cooperation. Such 
 
(90) European C ommission (n.d.), ‘What are good practices?’, https://ec.europa.eu/migrant -integration/page/what -are-good-
practices_en . 
(91) National Coordinator for Counterterrorism and Security (2022) , Landelijk Crisisplan Digitaal (National Crisis Plan Digital) , Ministry 
of Justice and Security , 23 December, pp. 10–11, https://www.nctv.nl/documenten/publicaties/2022/12/23/landelijk -crisisplan -
digitaal . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 30 a definition could also include a list of detailed indicators or decision-making mechanisms 
that would serve as a roadmap on how to operate in a state of crisis. In this respect, EU -
CyCLONe could be used to gather input from MS to formulate such a list. However, such a definition should avoid imposing a one-size -fits-all solution and instead take into account 
the var ying capabilities and priorities of MS. EU -CyCLONe could work on developing a sort 
of ‘cybersecurity dictionary ’, gathering MS ’ definitions and their equivalents in each 
jurisdiction, to facilitate mutual understanding (
92). 
• Matching  NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.1. Each Member State shall designate or establish one or more competent 
authorities responsible for the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and 
crises (cyber crisis management authorities). Member States shall ensure that those authorities have adequate resources to carry out, in an effective and efficient manner, 
the tasks assigned to them. Member States shall ensure coherence with the existing 
frameworks for general national crisis management.  
Best practice # 2: Development of information security standards specific to the national 
public sector, to be reviewed and updated regularly.  
• Example s 
• Since 2004, Estonia has required its public administrations to adopt and comply with the ISKE (IT Baseline Security System) standard  (
93). ISKE is an information security 
standard developed specifically for the Estonian public sector, guaranteeing a 
sufficient level of security for data processed in IT systems. It is regularly updated 
and, from 31 December 2023, will be replaced by a new standard, the Estonian 
Information Security Standard (E -ITS). E-ITS will improve the information security of 
Estonian public authorities and private companies, and will be updated every 
autumn (94). 
• France’ s National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (ANSSI) developed 
a self -assessment tool for cyber crisis preparedness which enables entities to assess 
their level of preparedness for cyber crises (95). The tool allows users to share their 
anonymised data with ANSSI, enabling the agency to consolidate its understanding of 
the maturity levels of each sector in France, highlighting those which may require 
closer attention. Such a tool could be used to support national cyber crisis 
management authorities in the development of advanced mappings.  
• Analysis and way forward . The national cyber crisis authority is responsible for developing 
and implementing information security standards specifically designed for the national public 
sector. Organisations must comply with these standards, thus increasing their ability to 
prevent crises, improving their resilience. This facilitates cyber crisis management by lowering 
the risk of crises. They should be regularly reviewed and updated to account for evolving 
cyber threats and opportunities to strengthen national IS. This update could include, for 
instance, risk and compliance assessments to ensure that the standards remain relevant. The 
standards should guarantee a minimum level of cybersecurity and standardised system 
protection for public administrations, strengthening the barriers against malicious actors. This 
practice could be generalised at the EU level for all MS , to guarantee a common level of 
cybersecurity throughout the E U and better protect European public administrations through 
increased resilience. Regular updating of these standards would make it possible to assess 
the effectiveness of the measures and ensure that they take account of the changing nature of 
cyber threats.  
 
(92) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(93) Information System Authority (n.d.) , ‘IT baseline security system ISKE ’, ISA official website, https://www.ria.ee/en/cyber -
security/management -state -information- security -measures/it -baseline- security -system -iske. 
(94) Information System Authority (n.d.) , ‘Estonian information security standard (E -ITS)’, ISA official website, 
https://www.ria.ee/en/cyber -security/management -state -information- security -measures/information- security- standard-e- its. 
(95) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2023) , Publication of a cyber crisis management self -assessment tool , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/en/actualite/publication-of -a-cyber- crisis -management -self-assessment -tool/. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 31 • Matching NIS2 objectives  
• Article  9.4.b.  Each Member State shall adopt a national large -scale cybersecurity 
incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and arrangements for the 
management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises are set out. That plan 
shall lay down, in particular: the tasks and responsibilities of  the cyber crisis 
management authorities.  
• Recital  57. As part of their national cybersecurity strategies, MS should adopt policies 
on the promotion of active cyber protection as part of a wider defensive strategy. 
Rather than responding reactively, active cyber protection is the prevention […] of 
network security breaches in an active manner, combined with the use of capabilities 
deployed within and outside the victim network.  
Best practice # 3: Foster national initiatives which promote the creation of prevention 
programmes , such as centralised DDoS mitigation programmes.  
• Example . In several MS, national actors have come together to launch nationwide threat and 
incident mitigation programmes. For example, the Artemis  (96) (Poland) and DNS 
Belgium  (97) (Belgium) initiatives were respectively designed to research the vulnerability of 
websites and domain names, alert others to these vulnerabilities and warn of potential 
consequences. For more large -scale incidents, such as DD oS attacks, the Netherlands has 
promoted the creation of the Dutch Anti-DDoS Coalition  (ADC) , of which the National Cyber 
Security Centr e is a member  (98). The 16 members of this national consortium are Dutch 
organisations from different sectors, including essential and important ones (government 
agencies, law enforcement, ISP s, banks, etc.). They work together to improve the resilience 
of Dutch critical service providers by fighting against DDoS attacks  (99). This joint initiative 
aims to share expertise and experience between its members, organise drills, communicate information to the public  and promote security standards to help protect against DDoS 
attacks. As part of the H orizon 2020 project CONCORDIA, ADC is developing the ‘ DDoS 
Clearing House’, a technical system allowing the continuous and automatic sharing of the 
metadata of DDoS attacks that have been processed by its members (duration of the 
attack, addresses , source IP, etc.). This tool consists of  an extra layer of security in addition 
to DDoS m itigation facilities that users must have in place. It aims to broaden users’ view of 
the DDoS attack landscape, while enabling them to proactively prepare their networks for 
an ongoing DDoS attack, thereby reducing the likelihood of disruption to critical  IS and 
associated consequences  (
100). 
• Analysis and way forward . ADC ’s collective management and mitigation model could inspire 
other types of coalition s. The principle could be the same, i.e.  bringing together cooperating 
organisations to improve the resilience of their digital services by fighting against a type of 
large- scale attack which has the potential to lead to a cyber crisis, such as supply chain 
attack and ransomware attack. These new coalitions would conduct three types of activities 
similar to ADC ’s, i.e. sharing metadata about attacks through a ‘c learing house’ (cf. supra),  
organising exercises to test the resilience of participants and sharing information. Its members can be public and/or private actors (government agencies, ISP s, banks, etc.). 
While the composition of a coalition can be cross -sectoral, it could also focus on a single 
specific essential or important sector (energy, health, financial market infrastructures, etc.), 
at the national or EU level s (
101). 
 
(96) CERT.PL (2023) , ‘Artemis  – CERT Polska verifies the cybersecurity of Polish organizations’, 25 January, 
https://cert.pl/en/posts/2023/01/artemis -scanning/ . 
(97) DNS Belgium (n. d.), ‘Partners for a safe Belgian internet’, https://www.dnsbelgium.be/en/smart -online/partners . 
(98) Anti-DDoS -Coalit ie (n.d.) , ‘About the coalition’, https://www.nomoreddos.org/en/about -the-coalition/ . 
(99) According to ENISA Threat Landscape 2022, DDoS attacks are s ignificantly  on the rise, and are larger and more complex.  
(100)  Anti-DDoS -Coalitie (2020) , ‘Increasing the Netherlands’ DDoS resilience together’, https://www.nomoreddos.org/en/increasing-
the-netherlands -ddos -resilience- together/ . 
(101)  Cyber Security Competence for Research and Innovation (CONCORDIA) (2022) , DDoS Clearing House Cookbook , Horizon 
2020 Programme (2014– 2020), Deliverable D3.6: DDoS Clearing House Platform , https://www.concordia -h2020.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2023/03/PREPRINT -D3-6_DDoS_Clearing_House_Cookbook.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 32 • Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  16.3.c.  EU-CyCLONe shall […] assess the consequences and impact of 
relevant large-scale cybersecurity incidents and crises and propose possible 
mitigation measure.  
 PHASE 2  – PREPAREDNESS  
The preparedness phase aims to prepare MS and the EU to manage crises by dev eloping plans 
to support response operations. This includes activities such as setting up a resilient crisis 
organisation, maintaining confidence within the ecosystem, prioritising the critical activities 
affected or ensuring that responders will know how to act by organising training sessions  and 
exercises. Preparedness measures are taken before crises occur.  
Table  3: Summary of best practices for Phase 2  – Preparedness  
Phase 2 – Preparedness  
BP #4 . Definition of a governance structure, provision of specific capabilities and appointment of a 
crisis coordinator, whose nomination is mandatory under NIS2, and ensuring their department has the 
necessary operational and technical cyber skills to directly coordinate stakeholders during a cyber 
crisis  
BP #5 . Mapping and gathering information on critical entities and their most critical assets to enable 
rapid action  
BP #6 . Establishing instantaneous, secured communication channels during a crisis  
BP #7 . Formalisation of a clear allocation of roles between the stakeholders involved in responding to 
a cyber crisis in an overall plan  
BP #8 . Development of escalation criteria for activating the cyber crisis plan and deploying the 
relevant cooperation units/groups, taking into account factors such as time, priority, players involved, 
severity of the attack, etc.  
BP #9 . Development of a methodology and risk assessment tools to optimise coordination and 
interoperability in the event of a crisis  
BP #10.  Test the overall plan for operations in response to cyber crises through a multiannual 
programme of cyber crisis management exercises and traini ng sessions  
BP #11.  Setting up training sessions for current and future staff responsible for cyber crisis 
management at the operational leve l 
BP #1 2. Development of a communication strategy including a clear format for messaging, 
stakeholders to involve, priority levels and time factor and communication channels to be used  
 
Best practice #4: Definition of a governance structure, provision of specific capabilities 
and appointment of a crisis coordinator, whose nomination is mandatory under NIS2, 
and ensuring their department has the necessary operational and technical cyber skills 
to directly coordinate stakeholders during a cyber crisis . 
• Example . In Italy, the Director General of the National Cybersecurity Agency (ACN) was 
appointed as the national cyber crisis coordinator. While ACN covers the technical and operational levels in cybersecurity,  integrating the national CSIRT, the NIS point of contact  
and the Cybersecurity Team, it is also a member of the CSIRTs Network and EU -CyCLONe 
at the EU level, enabling it to benefit from shared situational awareness and information 
from other MS. As a result, its director g eneral has direct access to all the relevant 
information needed to efficiently support and advise the strategic level in the event of a Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 33 cyber crisis (102). With its central position, the ACN bridges the gap between the strategic 
and technical levels and enables better coordination, fulfilling its mission as a key 
operational player.  
• Analysis and way forward  
• Designating an authority with operational and technical skills as cyber crisis 
coordinator speeds up decision-making, which is decisive for any crisis management. 
In the majority of  MS, the national cybersecurity authority has the necessary 
resources to ensure the national response to cyber incidents  (103). It often 
encompasses all the entities at the technical and operational level s, which greatly 
facilitates their mutual coordination and cooperation. As a member of the CSIRTs Network and EU -CyCLONe, it also has experience of cooperating with other MS, 
which is crucial when managing a cyber crisis at the EU level. This synergetic 
architecture is ideal for rapidly consolidating and correlating all the information, alerts 
and notifications of interest, from the detecti on of a cyber event to its potential 
escalation to the state of a cyber crisis, while ensuring that they are shared with other relevant government authorities. This type of entity therefore appears as the ideal 
player to act as a link between the different  levels and ensure an intelligent distribution 
of tasks, in order to prioritise and facilitate the work of all actors involved. It is  also in a 
privileged position to gather feedback and lessons learnt to improve processes after 
the crisis has ended, contr ibuting to improved prevention and mitigation of future 
crises. The entity would play a key role in managing the cyber crisis management plan and should be at the forefront of continuous process improvement  (
104). 
• For effective management and a 360° view of  the crisis, the entity should comprise 
staff from diverse backgrounds and mindsets, ranging from political scientists to 
engineers. The entity could also include experts in several key areas (judicial, sectoral 
issues, international relations, etc.) whose  specific expertise could be leveraged 
depending on the type of crisis, allowing to better understand and interact with all affected stakeholders in times of crisis  (
105). 
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.1. Each Member State shall designate or establish one or more competent 
authorities responsible for the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and 
crises (cyber crisis management authorities). Member States shall ensure that those 
authorities have  adequate resources to carry out, in an effective and efficient manner, 
the tasks assigned to them. Member States shall ensure coherence with the existing frameworks for general national crisis management.  
Best practice #5: Mapping and gathering informatio n on critical entities and their most 
critical assets to enable rapid action.  
• Example . In France,  ‘operators of vital importance’ who have activities considered essential to 
the survival of the country must communicate a mapping of their IS to ANSSI  (
106). For 
example, a French maritime transport company regularly updates the mapping of its IS. It 
allows this company to have an ‘ up-to-date view of digital assets, including those linked to 
critical activities or hosting sensitive or regulated data’, but also to prioritise actions  ‘when 
not everything can be saved or isolated’ (107). The shipowner also considers that it is  
‘important to know which employees manage which systems, because they are often the 
only ones who can take the precise actions required ’. In addition, the mapping of the IS 
 
(102) National Cybersecurity Agency  (2022), National Cybersecurity Strategy 2022– 2026, p.  20, 
https://www.acn.gov.it/ACN_EN_Strategia.pdf . 
(103) Ibid. 
(104) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(105) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(106) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2018) , Mapping the information system , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/guide/mapping- the-information- system/ . 
(107) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2021) , Crisis of cyber origin: the keys to operational and strategic 
management , p. 15, https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_gestion_crise_cyber_en.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 34 makes it possible to better understand the connections with customers and partners, and 
therefore to better communicate in the event of a crisis  (108). In this regard, as not all actors 
use the same security standards, ENISA has developed the ‘Interdependencies ’ web 
tool (109), which can be used to find the corresponding information securit y standards and 
frameworks of one standard to another.  
• Analysis and way forward . The precise mapping of IS of essential entities enables more 
effective operational coordination in the event of an incident. NIS2 deems that these 
systems are the most critical for MS, and also the most vulnerable given their exposure. 
The mapping of IS is essential for cyber crisis management. It relates directly to the 
defence of the IS by allowing for a rapid reaction in the event of an incident, to qualify the 
impact  thereof , or to prevent the consequences of the defensive actions carried out. 
Mapping also contributes to the resilience of the IS, since it is used to define, for example, the business continuity plan. These mappings, with regard to the critical nature of the 
activities of an essential entity, could be affixed with a mention of protection or even 
classification, according to the relevant rules of the MS. The competent authority could 
ensure that the mappings communicated by the essential entities have been developed, in 
addition to an approach focused on cybersecurity, to the highest level of granularity, by 
offering a complete view of the IS and all of its  ‘visions ’ (i.e. business, application, 
infrastructure) and its connection s with the outside. The competent authority could 
encourage essential entities to send regular updates, in particular during IS change or 
update of projects  (
110). MS could also consider retaining a degree of flexibility when 
drawing up these mappings, with the possibility of including entities of interest, even if not 
in the scope of NIS2, in their early warning systems, in order to improve responsiveness 
and cooperation with all parties concerned in the event of a crisis  (111). 
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  3.3. By 17  April 2025, Member States shall establish a list of essential and 
important entities as well as entities providing domain name registration services. Member States shall review and, where appropriate, update that list on a regular basis 
and at least every 2 years thereafter.  
Best practice #6: Establishing instantaneous, secured communication channels during a 
crisis.  
• Example . In Germany, the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) is evaluating the 
‘Wire’ instant messaging system for the exchange of  ‘restricted ’ classified information. Its 
use is currently limited to the authorities connected to the federal government network. 
More than 30 ministries and authorities use it to exchange information at the restricted 
level (
112). However, an extension to users of the ‘ open network ’ is planned for a later phase 
of the project. This would give BSI a secure communication channel for collecting and 
exchanging sensitive information with private- sector stakeholders, which could be useful in 
responding to a cyber crisis, particularly when pooling information with affected critical infrastructures operators, or external security service providers  (
113). In terms of 
performance, Wire messaging enables end-to -end encrypted messages, including 
attachments, to be sent between two users and in secure group discussions. It is 
 
(108) Ibid. 
(109) ENISA (n.d.) , ‘Interdependencies ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cybersecurity -policy/nis -directive -
new/Interdependencies_OES_and_DSPs . 
(110) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems  (2018) , Mapping the information system , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/guide/mapping- the-information- system/ . 
(111) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(112) Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) (2023a) , Sichere, zeitgemäße Kommunikation innerhalb der Netze des Bundes mit 
Wire (Secure, up- to-date communication within the federal networks with Wire), pp.  10–12, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/BSI/Publikationen/Magazin/BSI -
Magazin_2020_02.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=4 . 
(113) See BP #12 : Encourage the mobilisation of qualified security service providers to provide technical assistance to victims.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 35 compatible with the main operating systems, and can be used on smartphones, tablets and 
computers  (114). 
• Analysis and way forward . In July 2019, an ENISA report highlighted that stakeholders 
engaged in incident response need secure and reliable communication channels to 
cooperate and share information (115). Insofar as the essential entities of a cyber crisis are 
involved in its management, it is important that knowledge be shared with the MS national cyber crisis management authorities, within the framework of a secure communications 
group. While several types of solution s can be used to create a group discussion, central 
messaging systems, such as Slack and Mattermost, stand out because they are easy to use, either as software as a service  or via a website. Given the sensitivity of the information 
exchanged, the MS national cyber crisis management authority could ensure that the choice of messaging system takes into account as many requirements as possible. While 
end-to -end encryption of discussions is the basic criterion, ENISA defines the following 
seven other features  (
116): 
• a uthentication of members using identity -based cryptography , 
• a rchiving so that all members  – even new ones  – can access and learn from past 
discussions , 
• e xchange of at tachments in all formats , 
• a n open specification to enable security audits , 
• a source code under an open source license, 
• a vailability on all major desktop and mobile operating systems , 
• a ‘ future-proof ’ maturity through the development of a stable business model.  
 Once the messaging system has been selected, the MS national cyber crisis management 
authority could define it as the default communication platform, even for the most informal 
exchanges, to make it easier for stakeholders to adapt to its use. The national cyber crisis 
management authority could, for instance , open channels including representatives from all 
relevant entities, to ensure smooth cooperation and rapid exchange of information, which 
would promote rapid action and greater flexibility. Such channels could be opened to critical 
operators, allowing information on vulnerabilities to be gathered and shared faster and in a 
more targeted manner, encouraging a faster reaction. Participants could exchange information on a more regular and informal basis, which would foster trust, a key factor in cyber crisis 
management. In the event of a crisis, more formal rules could be established on the platform, such as the use of specific templates to promote clear messaging, as well as specific 
chan nels for questions. Finally, any mapping of participants to be included in such channels 
ahead of the crisis should be regularly updated  (
117). 
• Matching NIS2 objectives  
• Article  21.1. Member States shall ensure that essential and important entities take 
appropriate and proportionate technical, operational and organisational measures to manage the risks posed to the security of network and IS  which those entities use for 
their operations  or for the provision of their services, and to prevent or minimise the 
impact of incidents on recipients of their services and on other services.  
Taking into account the state- of-the-art and, where applicable, relevant European and 
international standards, as well as the cost of implementation, the measures referred to in the first subparagraph shall ensure a level of security of network and IS  appropriate to the risks 
posed … 
• Article  21.2.a and Article  21.2.f . The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be 
based on an all -hazards approach that aims to protect network and information 
systems and the physical environment of those systems from incidents, and shall 
include at least  …: policies on risk analysis and information system security; the use 
 
(114) Ibid. 
(115) ENISA (2019), Secure Group Communications for incident response and operational communities , pp. 6–7, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/secure- group- communications . 
(116) See footnote (115).  
(117) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 36 of multi -factor authentication or continuous authentication solutions, secured voice, 
video and text communications and secured emergency communication systems 
within the entity, where appropriate.  
Best practice #7: Formalisation of a clear allocation of roles among  the stakeholders 
involved in responding to a cyber crisis in an overall plan.  
• Example . In 2017, Belgium adopted a National Cyber Emergency Plan which is subject to 
annual evaluation and, if necessary, deve lopment  (118). The Centre for Cyber security 
Belgium (CCB) and the National Crisis Centre are responsible for implementing this 
confidential document, which was designed as a basis for the operational aspects of cyber 
crisis management at national level. Depending on the intensity of the inci dent, the plan 
describes the procedures and security measures to be followed. It formalises the framework for collaboration between the various competent services, and  their tasks within 
the limits of their legal and regulatory powers, to regain control of  the situation as quickly as 
possible (CCB  and its CERT.be service, the National Crisis Centre , the Public Prosecutor, 
Police services, etc.). The plan also promotes the rapid and correct exchange of 
information between services  (
119). 
• Analysis and way forward . The key to an effective coordinated response to a cyber crisis is 
a strict division of roles between the relevant authorities. Drawing up an overall plan 
detailing the framework for action by the players to be involved, as well as their missions 
and obligations, helps to prevent overlap throughout  the crisis. This document could take 
into account the nuances and complexities of the cyber crisis and propose, according to several scenarios, the operations and successive measures to be put in place at  the 
national level, but also in cooperation with E U partners. It should be regularly updated, 
based on experience, feedback and technical progress, in order to develop a MS national 
cyber crisis management framework. While the overall plan for operations must be 
confidential for security reasons, the development of a common base for all the MS could encourage and promote a common culture of response to cyber crises across the EU. EU -
CyCLONe could be tasked with contributing to this coordination between MS.  
• Matching NIS2 objectives  
• Article  9.3. Each Member State shall identify capabilities, assets and procedures that 
can be deployed in the case of a crisis  … 
• Article  9.4.c and Article  9.4.f. Each Member State shall adopt a national large-scale 
cybersecurity incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and 
arrangements for the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises 
are set out. Th is plan shall lay down, in particular:  
• the cyber crisis management procedures, including their integration into the 
general national crisis management framework and information exchange channels , 
• national procedures and arrangements between relevant national authorities and bodies to ensure the Member State ’
s effective participation in and support of the 
coordinated management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents and crises at the EU level.  
Best practice #8: Development of escalation criteria for activating the cyber crisis plan 
and deploying the relevant cooperation units/groups, taking into account factors such as 
time, priority, actors involved, severity of the attack, etc.  
 
(118) Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (2021) , Stratégie Cybersécurité Belgique 2.0 (2021– 2025) (Cybersecurity Strategy Belgium 
2.0 (2021– 2025)) , p. 2, https://ccb.belgium.be/sites/default/files/CCB_Strategie%202.0_FR_DP2.pdf . 
(119) Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (2015) , Annual Report  2015, pp.  18–19, 
https://ccb.belgium.be/sites/default/files/documents/FODB13_6002_RA15_Chancelerie_Brochure_Cyber_Security_PP_NL1.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 37 • Example . In 2018, the members of the NIS Cooperation Group published a cybersecurity 
incident taxonomy  (120). This taxonomy provides a common, simple and high-level 
classification for cybersecurity incidents at the strategic and policy level s, and was 
designed to facilitate the exchange of information across borders and international 
collaboration. The taxonomy assesses the cyber incident according to its nature ( the 
underlying cause that triggered the incident) and its impact on services and specific  sector s 
of the economy/society, as follows:  
• nature , 
• root cause category: s ystem failures, natural phenomena, human error, malicious 
actions, third-party failures , 
• severity of the threat : high, medium, low , 
• impact , 
• sectors impacted : energy, transport, banking, finance, health, drinking water, digital 
infrastructure, communications, trust and identification services, digital services, 
government services , 
• scale of the national impact  for the economy and society : red – very large impact, 
yellow  – marginal impact, green  – minor impact, white – no impact , 
• outlook, i.e. the prognosis for the impact for the economy and society: 
improving, stable, worsening . 
This taxonomy is only for ‘naming’ cyber incidents and does not include processes to, for 
example,  notify or escalat e incidents . 
• Analysis and way forward . While the above was developed for the strategic level, it could 
serve as a basis for operational players to assess and qualify a cyber incident as a crisis 
using clear escalation criteria. These could lead to the activation of the cyber crisis plan 
required by NIS2, in order to deploy appropriate measures proportionate to the scale of the 
crisis. In the future, such a measure could build on the work of the NIS Cooperation Group, 
bringing an operational perspective that not only qualifies cybersecurity incidents, but al so 
addresses processes to be implemented depending on the level of the crisis. The establishment of escalation criteria would provide a coherent mechanism for objectively 
assessing cyber incidents, determining the actors to be involved according to the 
seriousness of the incident and informing decision-makers at all levels of the nature and 
speed of the response and the procedures to be adopted. These escalation criteria could be developed at the national or the  EU level, for instance through a working group 
coordinated by EU -CyCLONe and involving actors from both the strategic and technical 
levels , and could be integrated in national crisis plans. While common criteria may be 
difficult to agree upon, MS should endeavour to reach a mutual understanding, either by adopting a common approach or by developing a tool for rapid understanding, using EU -
CyCLONe. Rather than proposing common definitions, this tool would provide an 
equivalence scale matching varying concepts in the different MS.  
• Matching NIS2 objectives  
• Article  9.4.b.  Each Member State shall adopt a national large-scale cybersecurity 
incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and arrangements for the 
management of large- scale cybersecurity in cidents and crises are set out. That plan 
shall lay down, in particular: the tasks and responsibilities of the cyber crisis management authorities.  
• Article  16.3.c.  EU-CyCLONe shall assess the consequences and impact of relevant 
large- scale cybersecurity in cidents and crises and propose possible mitigation 
measures.  
 
(120) NIS Cooperation Group (2018) , Cybersecurity Incident Taxonomy (04/2018) , 
https://ec.europa.eu/information_society/newsroom/image/document/2018- 30/cybersecurity_incident_taxonomy_00CD828C -
F851- AFC4 -0B1B416696B5F710_53646.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 38 Best practice #9: Development of a methodology and risk assessment tools to optimise 
coordination and interoperability in the event of a crisis.  
• Example . The Polish Cybersecurity Strategy (2018) for 2019 –2024 sets as an objective the 
development and implementation of a risk -assessment approach, a Polish government 
priority for the establishment of a national cybersecurity system. The strategy proposes a 
‘joint static and dynamic risk -assessment methodology which takes into account the 
specificity of individual sectors, critical-infrastructure operators, operators of essential services, and digital service providers, shall be introduced for the purpose of cybersecurity 
management at the national level ’ (
121). In this way, the government intends to facilitate the 
comparison of assessments and risk levels, particularly for reporting on national security risks, in line with crisis management regulations  (
122). As a result, risk assessmen t becomes 
a continuous process which allows the level of risk to be identified in near real time (123). 
The Polish government developed a risk assessment method and tools through the 
National Cybersecurity Platform, a project aimed at creating a prototype f or ‘a 
comprehensive, integrated system for monitoring, imaging and warning of threats [to the state ’s cyberspace]’. This platform is intended to help prevent, detect and minimise the 
effects of cyber incidents on the information and communication systems that are important to the functioning of the state, while also promoting information sharing on cyber 
threats  (
124). 
• ENISA has published several reports on risk assessment and interoperability, including 
Interoperable EU Risk Assessment Toolbox  (2023)  (125) and Interoperable EU Risk 
Assessment Framework (2023)  (126). The former  (127) aims to address interoperability issues 
related to the use of IS risk management methods to facilitate the seamless integration of 
risk management methods within and between organisations, bridging gaps between different approaches. It thus promotes a common understanding of the risks of 
interoperable risk assessment results. The latter  (
128) proposes a methodology to evaluate 
the potential interoperability of risk management frameworks  and methods, proposing, for 
example, a four -level scale to assess the d egree of interoperability of each method and set 
of characteristics combined.  
• Analysis and way forward . The development of a risk assessment methodology and tools is 
essential to enable a progressive approach to the management of large- scale cyber 
incidents and crises. It not only improves coordination and cooperation between the various 
levels  – strategic,  operational and technical – through improved mutual understanding, but 
also between MS. It is a key measure for promoting information sharing, while at the same time proposing ways of interconnecting and harmonising national approaches. In particular, 
the operational level would play a key role in bridging the gaps between all the 
stakeholders involved. This approach could also solve some of the problems associated with the difficulty of defining the notion of a cybersecurity crisis and the subjectivity of  what 
is considered a cyber crisis across MS. It could also easily be integrated into national and 
European general crisis management frameworks. EU -CyCLONe could elaborate such a 
methodology, bringing together the perspectives of the MS.  
• Matching NIS2 obj ectives 
 
(121) Ministry of Digital Affairs (2019), Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland for 2019– 2024,  
https://www.gov.pl/attachment/6a4aafc6 -e339- 4cd5- a8e6- cd47257f02d8 . 
(122) Ibid. 
(123) Ibid. 
(124) NASK (n.d.) , ‘National Cybersecurity Platform ’, https://en.nask.pl/eng/acti vities/science -and-business/research-
projects/2088,National -Cybersecurity- Platform.html . 
(125) ENISA (2023), Interoperable EU Risk Management Toolbox,  https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -toolbox . 
(126) ENISA (2023), Interoperable EU Risk Management Framework , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -framework . 
(127) ENISA  (2023) , Interoperable EU Risk Management Toolbox , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -toolbox . 
(128) ENISA  (2023) , Interoperable EU Risk Management F ramework , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -framework . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 39 • Article  9.3. Each Member State shall identify capabilities, assets and procedures that 
can be deployed in the case of a crisis  … 
• Article  9.4.c and Article  9.4.f. Each Member State shall adopt a national large-scale 
cybersecurity incident and crisis  response plan where the objectives of and 
arrangements for the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises 
are set out. That plan shall lay down, in particular:  
• the cyber crisis management procedures, including their integration into the 
general national crisis management framework and information exchange 
channels , 
• national procedures and arrangements between relevant national authorities and 
bodies to ensure the Member State ’ s effective participation in and support of the 
coordinated management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents and crises at the 
EU level . 
Best practice #10: Test the overall plan for operations in response to cyber crises 
through a multi -annual programme of cyber crisis management exercises and trainings. 
• Examples  
• Finland has been organising major joint cybersecurity exercises for several years. For 
the Finnish Transport and Communication Agency ’s National Cyber Security Centre, 
these exercises aim to create common situational awareness and coordinating 
activities between participants and their partners, rather than improving its own 
internal processes  (129). 
• At the EU level, ENISA has been organising local, international and EU -wide 
exercises for the pa st 15  years, developing cyber exercise platforms available to 
stakeholders so they may host their own exercises. T he agency organises  the 
following specific exercises to test cyber crisis management : 
• Cyber Europe , the biannual exercise simulating large- scale cybersecurity 
incidents which escalate into cyber crises, for both the public and private sectors  
from the EU and European Free Trade Association MS  (130), 
• CyberSOPex,  the biannual exercise to test the CSIRTs Network SOPs , 
• CySOPex,  the biannual exercise to test the Eu-CyCLONe Officers ’ SOPs for 
rapid EU cyber crisis management when faced with large-scale cross -border 
cyber incidents and crises  (131), 
• BlueOLEx , the annual exercise to test the Eu-CyCLONe Executives ’ SOPs for 
rapid EU cyber crisis management when faced with large-scale cross -border 
cyber incidents and crises.  
• Analysis and way forward . The programming of cyber exercises over several years could 
help to develop and strengthen MS ’ national cyber crisis management frameworks. These 
exercises should not be considered as isolated events, but rather as a series forming a coherent whole enabling the continuous improvement of all stakeholders, as well as the 
evolution of capabilities requirements  (
132). They could involve all three levels (strategic, 
operational, technical), around operational level actors as the federating level, to bridge the gap between the strategic and technical levels. In order to identify training needs, a survey 
could be conducted at the EU level. Then, in order to match the needs identified, the 
following phases should be followed: selecting the type of exercise, setting up a planning team, preparing the exercise, supporting observers, carrying out the exercise, providing 
feedback and drawing lessons learned. Rather than repeating similar exercises every few 
 
(129) National Cyber Security Centre (2020) , Instructions for organising cyber exercises: A manual for cyber exercise organisers , 
https://www.kyberturvallisuuskeskus.fi/sites/default/files/media/file/Instructions for organising cyber exercises.pdf . 
(130) ENISA (2022), Cyber Europe 2022: After a ction report , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cyber -europe- 2022- after- action-
report . 
(131) ENISA (n.d.) , ‘Cyber Crisis Management ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cyber -crisis -management . 
(132) National Cyber Securit y Centre (2020), Instructions for organising cyber exercises: A manual for cyber exercise organisers , 
p. 29, https://www.kyberturvallisuuskeskus.fi/sites/default/files/media/file/Instructions for organising cyber exercises.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 40 months, different types of exercises could be programmed (tabletop exercise, functional 
exercise, major joint exercise), just as scenarios could be expanded to involve a growing 
number  of players and critical sectors. Examples of programmes could include, but are not 
limited to:  
• a series of smaller exercises, workshops, and training s ession, which could be 
organised more frequently throughout the year, and on specific topics: this would allow participants to benefit from regular reminders about new things they have 
learned, promote a common vocabulary and knowledge base and build trust 
between participants  (
133), 
• e xercises taking into account a sectoral approach, mobilising representative s from 
critical sectors (banking, energy, transport, etc.) to facilitate discussions between 
the sector and regulators, promote mutual understanding and improve trust and 
information sharing (134), 
• e xercises including anticipation scenarios, to prepare and improve response in the 
event that stakeholders are faced with new situations for which there are not yet clear operational procedures  (
135). 
By practising the management of a series of large- scale incidents under realistic conditions, 
the MS cyber crisis management authorities, the operators of critical and important entities 
and partners develop methods and reflexes for dealing with real crises  (136). These exercises 
could also be used to test internal procedures (such as b usiness continuity plans) and 
external procedures (such as the quality of information sharing)  (137). The transposition of NIS2 
into national legislation will require MS to adopt response plans for large-scale cyber security incidents and crises, making the organisation of exercises to test national cyber crisis plans 
particularly relevant.  
• Matching  NIS2 objective  
• Article 9.4.d. Each Member State shall adopt a national large -scale cybersecurity 
incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and arrangements for the 
management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises are set out. That plan 
shall lay down, in particular: national preparedness measures, including exercises and training activities.  
 
Best practice #11: Setting up training sessions for current and future staff responsible 
for cyber crisis management at the operational level.  
• Example . In Portugal, the National Defence Institute has set up a short -term programme 
called ‘Cyber Security and Crisis Management in Cyberspace Course’ . The course, which 
is open by selection, is aimed at senior and middle-level government managers, armed forces and security officers, diplomats, civil society organisations, academics and 
executives. It prepares them to intervene in the event of a cyber crisis, in particular by promoting the sharing of knowledge, while disseminating a strategic culture of 
cybersecurity. Among the five teaching modules, which aim to raise awareness and provide 
training in the various issues at stake in the digital space (security, technology, economy, 
etc.), the ‘ Strategic Decision Exercise ’ module endeavours  ‘to encourage and raise relevant 
issues related to crisis management situations in cyberspace’ among the attendees , in 
order  ‘to improve processes and provide methodologies to be used in decision -
making ’ (
138). 
 
(133) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(134) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(135) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(136) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems  (2021) , Crisis of cyber origin: the keys to operational and strategic 
management , https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_gestion_crise_cyber_en.pdf . 
(137) ENISA  (2022) , Cyber Europe 2022: After Action Report , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cyber -europe- 2022- after-
action- report  
(138) Instituto da Defesa Nacional (Portugal)  (2023) , ‘Cyber Security and Crisis Management in Cyberspace Course’. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 41 • Analysis and way forward . Regular training cycles help to train and improve the skills of 
personnel responsible for managing cyber crises. In particular, modules specifical ly 
dedicated to the operational level could help to bring together the public and private 
managers (representatives of the national cyber crisis management authority of the M S, 
key and important entities, etc.) who will be required to work together during a cyber crisis, in order to clearly determine the division of tasks and individual roles. As well as 
exchanging best practice in cyber crisis management, such training would enable the 
operational level to be better integrated at the technical and strategic levels. For example, 
participants could develop and test their knowledge of threat analysis, situation assessment 
and mitigation measures through feedback, lessons learned and cyber crisis exercises. 
This type of training could be delivered via an e-learning platform to allow regular updating 
of knowledge. The educational content of this platform could be populated by the MS’ 
national cyber crisis management authority, in coordination with EU -CyCLONe.  
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.4.d.  Each Member State shall adopt a national large-scale cybersecurity 
incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and arrangements for the 
management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises are set out. That plan 
shall lay down, in particular: national preparedness measures, including exercises and training activities.  
 Best practice #12: Development of a communication strategy, including a clear format for 
messaging, stakeholders to involve, priority levels and time factor and communication channels to be used.  
• Example . The Netherlands has developed its communication strategy around the ad hoc  
establishment of a National Central Crisis Communication Team. Th is is made up of 
communication professionals from the National Crisis Centre and relevant ministries. The 
team  coordinates the central government ’s communication with Dutch society and the 
press, as well as with the other MS, on the crisis and its visible consequences. As part of a unified approach, it coordinates the timetable and content of messages from all the public 
and private actors involved, who must express themselves on their own responsibility on 
their own subjects. For example, local authorities only comment on the implementation of 
security measures at their level, private companies on the consequences of the crisis on 
their employees, customers and suppliers, and ministries on the prospects for action at the  
national level in their areas. In the run -up to a crisis, the centre’s  Communications 
Department coordinates communications between central government and public and 
private partners, providing them with advice, resources and a network of crisis communication experts as required (
139). 
• Analysis and way forward . A crisis communication strategy defines the rules for delivering a 
clear message at the right time. In the cyber domain, the challenge is to communicate 
proactively to prevent doubt in public opinion, even though identifying the causes and 
consequences of  an incident is always uncertain. Whatever the organisation of crisis 
management, a competent unit or department should be designated to coordinate the timing and content of messages, in the interest of a unified and coherent discourse. These 
communications experts should be included in all meetings, at all stages and at all levels, 
to contribute to managing the crisis. It is therefore crucial that roles are allocated upstream 
to clarify the communication tasks  of each government actor. Given the complexity  of cyber 
issues, it seems important that the designated communicators master the technical 
vocabulary, the challenge being to make the general public understand the complexities of 
a cyber crisis. They must be able to respond effectively to requests for information, both internal (government departments, public partners, etc.) and external (press, citizens, 
foreign partners, etc.). In terms of deadlines and content, the aim is to inform the public as 
 
(139) National Coordinator for Counterterrorism and Security  (2022) , Landelijk Crisisplan Digitaal,  (National crisis plan digital) , Ministry 
of Justice and Securi ty, 23 December,  pp. 31–33, https://www.nctv.nl/documenten/publicaties/2022/12/23/landelijk -crisisplan -
digitaal . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 42 quickly as possible about what is known, what is not yet  known and what measures have 
been taken. Until it is certain that a cyber crisis is the result of deliberate action, reference 
to possible causes, duration and scale should be avoided as far as possible.  
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.3. Each Member State shall identify capabilities, assets and procedures that 
can be deployed in the case of a crisis  … 
 PHASE 3  – RESPONSE 
The response phase aims to stem the cyber crisis and prevent further damage. At the EU level, 
response is based on effec tive technical, operational and strategic cooperation between MS. An 
effective and safe response involves activating predetermined measures. These measures are 
taken during crises.  
Table  4: Summary of best practices for Phase 3  – Response  
Phase 3 – Response  
BP #1 3. Encourage the mobilisation of private -sector certified  ‘trusted providers ’ 
to provide technical assistance to victims  
BP #1 4. Supporting victims ’ crisis communication , for instance with a unified 
and transparent message  
 
Best practice #13: Encourage the mobilisation of private -sector certified  ‘trusted 
providers ’ to provide technical assistance to victims.  
• Examples  
• In May 2023, BSI published its list of qualified service providers for responding to 
advanced persistent threat (APT) attacks  (140). Following a particularly powerful and 
sophisticated attack (but also beforehand as a preventive measure), German 
essential entities can consult this list to quickly request assistance from one of these 
approved actors. Qualified service providers are priv ate companies selected in two 
stages: applicants must first provide BSI with full documentation for assessment (description of products and services, compliance with defined criteria, existing 
certifications, etc.), then conduct a technical interview at BS I, during which they must 
prove their ability to manage an incident in a professional manner, in the framework of a fictitious scenario. Qualified security service providers are presented on the BSI ’s 
list according to a number of performance characteristi cs, including 24x7 availability, 
ISO 27001 certification, head office location, internal resources for APT incident 
response, ability to provide other services (legal, crisis communication, etc.), and  
technical equipment.  
• ANSSI has drawn up a set of requirements for security incident response providers, a 
set of rules for providers to obtain qualification for their services in this area. It covers 
requirements relating to the incident response provider, its staff and the way in which 
incident response services are provided. The following activities are eligible for 
qualification: system, network and malicious code analysis, and  technical monitoring. 
 
(140) Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) (2023) , Qualifizierte APT -Response Dienstleister (Qualified APT response service 
providers), https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/BSI/Cyber -Sicherheit/Themen/Dienstleister_APT -Respons e-
Liste.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=17 . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 43 This standard was drawn up in consultation with market players and is regularly 
updated (141). 
• Analysis and way forward . The certification of trusted private-sector security service 
providers could be encouraged to assist targeted critical infrastructure operators. Given the 
potentially large number of organisations affected during a cyber crisis, the mobilisation of 
these partners would relieve national cyber crisis management authorities which, if they lack the resources to act on all fronts, could concentrate on other tasks with higher added 
value. Certified trusted security incident response service providers, approved in advance 
and compliant with high-level requirements, could be called on directly by an essential 
entity. To provide an overview of the market for these approved providers, the MS 
competent authority could publish a directory, enabling the appropr iate partner to be found 
quickly in case of emergency. This list could briefly present  certified trusted security service 
providers, their contact details and their performance characteristics, allowing for a kind of 
pre-approved, trusted pool of experts. In order to avoid time- consuming research when 
responding to a cyber crisis, the MS national cyber crisis management authority could ensure that all essential entities have contracted a partnership with a certified trusted 
security service provider. However, authorities should establish clear procedures for 
certifying these suppliers, in order to avoid distorting the market and to leave little room for 
subjectivity and interpretation, in order to maintain a high level of transparency and 
accountability  (
142). 
• Matching  NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.4.e . Each Member State shall adopt a national large -scale cybersecurity 
incident and crisis response plan where the objectives of and arrangements for the management of large- scale cybersecurity incidents and crises are set out. That plan 
shall lay down, in particular: the relevant public and private stakeholders and infrastructure involved.  
Best practice #14: Supporting victims ’ crisis communication , for instance with a unified 
and transparent message. 
• Example . In 2017, a car manufacturer was forced to halt production at several of its plants as 
a result of the WannaCry attack. It was the first company to acknowledge being a victim of 
this large-scale attack , which disrupted the systems of several organisations across the EU. 
The company explained it was doing ‘everything necessary to counter this attack’ , 
stating that the first step of the management procedure was to set up measures to stop the 
spread of the virus  (
143). Two days later, the Director General of ANSSI spoke to the main 
French media outlets to say that his teams were working with those of this company , and 
those of companies that chose to remain anonymous, which he refused to name. He added 
that ANSSI was  ‘really trying to restore as quickly as possible in the most problematic 
cases ’ (144). His message was quickly picked up by the regional daily press and the 
specialist press, contributing to the company ’s transparency and therefore to the protection 
of its reputation. 
• Analysis and way forward . The main source of information in managing a cyber crisis should 
ideally be the organisation that is the victim of the  crisis. It is essential for it to be proactive 
and take the initiative, but not in a hurry. Lies, silence or passivity should be avoided at all 
costs. To protect the organisation’ s reputation, the cyber crisis management authority can 
support the victim organisation ’s communication to avoid uncertainty. The communications 
team of the national cyber crisis management authority should be inv olved at all times, to 
 
(141) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (n.d.) , Référentiels d’ exigence: PRIS , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/administration/qualifications/prestataires -de-services- de-confiance- qualifies/referentiels -
exigences/#referentiel -pris. 
(142) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(143) France24 (2017) , “France ’s Renault hit in worldwide ‘ ransomware’ cyber attack ”, 14 May, 
https://www.france24.com/en/20170512- cyberattack -ransomware- renault -worldwide- british -hospitals . 
(144) RFI (2017), ‘ Renault not only ransomware victim in France’,  15 May, https://www.rfi.fr/en/economy/20170515- renault -not-only-
ransomware- victim -france . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 44 help in managing the crisis  (145). This approach does not mean that everything should be 
said. As a general rule, it is important to gain time until the extent of the situation is better 
understood. As the Spanish National Cryptologic Centre states in its report dedicated to 
good practices  in the management of cyber crisis,  ‘any communication shall avoid 
mentioning the causes of the incident, the person responsible for it, information that the investigation may reveal or the possible consequences for the organisation or another 
stakeholder ’ (
146). 
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.3. Each Member State shall identify capabilities, assets and procedures that 
can be deployed in the case of a crisis  … 
 PHASE 4  – RECOVERY 
The recovery phase aims to enable the MS and the EU to recover quickly by taking measures , 
as soon as the crisis is over , to return to a level of security that is normal or even higher than 
before the crisis. Activities include restoring and reintegrating affected systems and 
arrangements or organising lessons learned to better prevent, respond to and mitigate future 
crises. Such measures are taken after crises occur.  
Table  5: Summary of best practices for Phase 4  – Recovery  
Phase 4 – Recovery  
BP #1 5. Develop and implement BRP defined in reference frameworks, with regular reviewing and 
updates, in consultation with relevant stakeholders  
BP #1 6. Establish a unit tasked with gathering feedback, drawing lessons learnt and producing 
recommendations for reviewing, updating and modifying procedures and refining the action plan for 
cyber crisis management  
 
Best practice #15: Develop and implement BRP defined in reference frameworks, with 
regular reviewing and updates, in consultation with relevant stakeholders.  
• Example . Predefined frameworks such as NIST 800-34, BS 25999- 1, APS 232, NFPA 1600, 
COBIT, HB 292 -2006 or PAS 77 can be used as part of a BRP  (147). National cybersecurity 
agencies provide guides to help impacted entities  recover from a cyber crisis, which could 
be used to develop robust BRP at a national level. For example, Fr ance’s ANSSI has 
developed a guide proposing a gradual approach, describing the different phases that 
impacted entities should follow to recover their assets and gradually resume their 
activities  (148). 
• Analysis and way forward . National cyber crisis management authorities must support the 
victims of a cyber crisis until its end, i.e. when the essential activities concerned can 
resume as usual. The measures to be taken in this respect must be formulated in advance 
to enable smooth activation at the end of a crisis, as part of a BRP and should be regularly 
updated with lessons learned. The BRP is the final component of a b usiness continuity plan 
that groups together all the measures that an organisation (public institution, private 
company, etc.) must take as soon as a crisis occurs in order to continue operating. It also 
 
(145) Interview with a member of EU -CyCLONe . 
(146) National Intelligence Centre (2020) , Gestión de Cibercrisis. Buenas prácticas en la gestión de crisis de ciberseguridad (Cyber 
crisis management. Best practices in cybersecurity crisis management) , CCN- CERT , p. 23, https://www.ccn -
cert.cni.es/informes/informes -de-buenas -practicas -bp/5425- ccn-cert-bp-20-buenas -pra-cticas -en-la-gestio-n- de-
cibercrisis/file.html . 
(147) ENISA (n.d.) , ‘Business Resumption Plan’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/risk -management/current -risk/bcm -resilience/bc -
plan/business -resumption- plan. 
(148) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems  (2021) , Crisis of cyber origin: the keys to operational and strategic 
management , https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_gestion_crise_cyber_en.pdf . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 45 includes a business recovery plan, which precedes the BRP and is used to re-establish the 
processes of the ICT or IS teams following an incident. Indeed, the notions of  ‘recovery ’ 
and ‘ resumption ’ should be distinguished: recovery  refers to the return of operations back 
to normal,  while  resum ption refers to the return to business with less capacity and in a 
different environment  (149), gradually bringing back into service the digital tools and 
infrastructure affected. The se plans should be developed  in consultation with the different 
stakeholders inv olved in cyber crisis management , in order to promote a holistic approach. 
National cyber crisis authorities could also develop guides for different kinds of 
stakeholders such as essential and important entities, but also smaller structure s which 
may not have the internal resources to develop such plans.  
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  21.1.  Member States shall ensure that essential and important entities take 
appropriate and proportionate technical, operational and organisational measures t o 
minimise the impact of incidents on recipients of their services and on other services.  
Best practice #16: Establishment of a unit tasked with gathering feedback, drawing 
lessons learnt and producing recommendations for reviewing, updating and modifying 
procedures and infrastructure, and refining the action plan for cyber crisis management . 
• Example . In February 2021, a hospital in France  was the target of a ransomware attack, 
forcing it to reschedule surgical operations. ANSSI was called in to conduct technical investigations. After the crisis, all the teams involved were mobilised in two stages, firstly in a ‘hotwash ’ session and then at a later date. The aim of these feedback sessions was to 
‘question and improve the practices and procedures of  [the] business lines ’, with a view to 
being even ‘ more resilient in the event of a long- lasting crisis ’ (
150). 
• Analysis and way forward  
• In order to develop the cyber crisis management framework, both for the MS and for 
the organisation affected, each crisis could be immediately followed by the 
organisation of a feedback session, which would later be evaluated within 
30 days  (151). 
• As soon as the crisis is over, a team could be identified to interview the relevant 
actors, according to a defined timetable and interview methods. Several themes could 
be addressed, including governance and the crisis management process, crisis 
communication, the decision -making and action- monitoring process, technical and 
operational capabilities and interactions with external stakeholders. The interviews could lead to the drafting of a summary document, which could be supplemented by a 
digital investigation commissioned from service providers.  
• Based on the data collected, the team would then draft an action plan aimed at 
improving the national crisis management framework. Feedback could be organised 
at the level of the MS cyber crisis management authority, which would receive a 
summary report for its management, along with a more comprehensive document for 
the technical teams.  
• Matching NIS2 objective  
• Article  9.3. Each Member State shall identify capabilities, assets and procedures that 
can be deployed in the case of a crisis  … 
 
(149) Leal, R. (2021), ‘ Explanation of the most common business continuity terms’,  Advisera , 
https://advisera.com/27001academy/blog/2021/01/18/explanation- of-most -common- business -continuity -terms/ . 
(150) National Agency for the Security of Information Systems  (2021) , Crisis of cyber origin: the keys to operational and strategic 
management , p. 65, https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_gestion_crise_cyber_en.pdf . 
(151) Ibid. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 46 5. RECOMMENDATIONS  
This final chapter provides a list of recommendations for future development of cyber crisis 
management at the operational level in the EU.  
The best practices identified in this study highlight a number of gaps in cyber crisis management 
at the operational level in the EU. The imminent transposition of NIS2 into national legislation 
will formalise the creation of national cyber crisis management authorities. The latter will have to 
collaborate with – at the MS level  – all competent actors in cyber crisis management , including 
essential entities, and – at the EU level  – their E U counterparts through EU -CyCLONe. A 
number of initiatives could be taken to maximise these efforts.  
Based on the analysis and the way forward of the best practices  (152), EU -CyCLONe could 
consider the following recommendations . 
Recommendation #1 . Coordinate working sessions involving all MS to define a list of EU -wide 
cyber crisis mechanisms to enable a common assessment of incidents and identify the players to be involved depending on the severity of the incident, leading to a model cyber crisis 
response pl an. These cyber crisis management mechanisms could be regularly updated in line 
with progress made by the MS, particularly in terms of human and technical resources, situational awareness and impact assessment. They should always be part of overarching 
national crisis management frameworks, considering the transboundary nature of most crises 
and the potential for spill -over effect impacting many sectors at the same time.  
Recommendation #2 . Develop simulation exercises at the EU level which test the operational 
level players and procedures in particular. These exercises, which should involve all three levels 
(strategic, operational and technical), aim to practice the allocation of tasks, cooperation and 
fluidity of action of the MS during a cyber cris is. Actors in charge of cyber crisis management 
must know each other well to trust one another. To ensure continuity, coherence and overall consistency, each exercise could be organised on the basis of the results of the previous one. 
The exercises would t hus test the operational level ’s ability to coordinate and exchange 
information, assess the situation, act as the CSIRTs ’ interpreter with political decision -makers 
and manage crisis communication with stakeholders. EU -CyCLONe can play a key role not only 
in strengthening capacity -building but also developing long-lasting trust among MS.  
Recommendation #3 . Support MS in the set -up of secure communication platform(s) to 
exchange information with essential entities, including for informal communication, during a 
cyber crisis. While the platforms selected by MS should obviously be the result of national 
choices, EU -CyCLONe could help the  choices by publishing guidelines, and even comparative 
analyses, about the messaging systems best suited to cooperate and exc hange information in 
complete confidentiality.  
Recommendation #4 . Ensure that MS national cyber crisis management authorities, in 
coordination with the NIS Cooperation Group (
153), regularly update critical IS maps of essential 
entities in their country. To do so, they could encourage essential entities to send regular 
updates, in particular during IS change or project update s. Precise maps are essential for cyber 
crisis management, enabling more effective operational coordination in the event of an incident. 
 
(152) See Chapter  4 ‘Cyber crisis management best practices in the EU ’. 
(153) According to Article 14.4 of NIS2 , the NIS Cooperation Group is responsible for providing strategic guidance to EU -CyCLONe 
and for exchanging information relating  to the identification of essential and important entities.  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 47 They contribute to a rapid reaction in the event of an incident, to qualify the impact or to prevent 
the consequences of the defensive actions carried out.  
Recommendation #5 . Support the organisation of media training sessions for executives of MS 
national cyber crisis management authorities, so that they can give coherent and clear updates 
on the progress of the crisis, in any type of media (press, radio, TV, social networks). As  each 
MS has its own capacity needs, these communication sessions could be organised at the 
national level, with content adapted to the context of the MS. EU crisis communicators could 
regularly follow awareness -raising sessions on cyber issues, as well as  refresher courses . 
National and E U cyber crisis management procedures will doubtless continue to evolve. Based 
on the experience of MS (and beyond), ENISA should continue to identify best practices on a 
regular basis, beginning once NIS2 has been implemented in all MS.  
  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 48 6. BIBLIOGRAPHY  
LEGAL DOCUMENTS  
 
European Commission (2017) , Commission Recommendation (EU) 2017/1584 of 13 September 
2017 on coordinated response to large- scale cybersecurity incid ents and crises  (OJ L  239, 
19.9.2017, pp.  36–58), https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017H1584&qid=1702033489333. 
European Commission (2021) , Commission Recommendation (EU) 2021/1086 o f 23 June 2021 
on building a Joint  Cyber Unit , COM(2021) 4520  (OJ L  237, 5.7.2021, pp.  1–15), https://eur -
lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021H1086. 
European Commission (2023a) , Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of 
the Council, laying down measures to strengthen solidarity and capacities in the Union to 
detect, prepare for and respond to cybersecurity threats and incidents , COM(2023)  209, 
https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal- content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52023PC0209 . 
European Parliament and Council of the European Union (2016) , Directive (EU) 2016/1148 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 6  July 2016 concerning measures for a high 
common level of security of network and information systems across the Union (OJ L  194, 
19.7.2016,  pp.1– 30), https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -
content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32016L1148. 
European Parliament and Council of the European Union (2019) , Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on ENISA (the European Union 
Agency for Cybersecurity) and on information and communications technology cybersecurity certification and repealing Regulation (EU) No  526/2013 (Cybersecurity Act)  (OJ L  151, 
7.6.2019, pp.  15–69), https://eur -lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2019/881/oj
. 
European Parliament and Council of the European Union (2022) , Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 on measures for a high 
common level of cybersecurity across the Union, amending Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 and 
Directive (EU) 2018/1972, and repealing Directive (EU) 2016/1148 (NIS 2 Directive)  (OJ L  333, 
27.12.2022, pp.  80–152), https://eur -lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2022/2555/oj . 
 
OFFICIAL EUIBA DOCUMENTS, STATEMENTS AND WEBSITES  
 
Council  of the European Union (2021a) , Council conclusions on enhancing preparedness, 
response capability and resilience to f uture crises , 14276/21, 23 November 2021,  
https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST -14276-2021 -INIT/en/pdf . 
Council  of the European Union (2021b) , ‘Declaration by the High Representative on behalf of 
the European Union expressing solidarity with the United States on the impact of the 
SolarW inds cyber operation’, press release,  15 April 2021,  
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press -releases/2021/04/15/declaration- by-the-high-Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 49 representative-on- behalf -of-the-european- union-expressing -solidarity -with -the-united- states -on-
the-impact -of-the-solarwinds -cyber -operation/ . 
Council  of the European Union (2022) , Council conclusions on the development of the 
European Union’ s cyber posture, 9364/22, 23 May 2022 , 
https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/56358/st09364- en22.pdf . 
CSIRTs Network (n.d.) , official website, https://csirtsnetwork.eu/ . 
ENISA (20 13a), Report on Second International Conference on Cyber -crisis Cooperation and 
Exercises (24  October 2013) , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/report/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2013b), National -level Risk Assessments: An Analysis Report (19 November 2013) , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/nlra-analysis -report/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2014), Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 6 November , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/ccc -study/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2016a), Common practices of EU -level crisis management and applicability to the cyber 
crisis (4  April 2016) , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/eu- level-crisis -
man/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2016b), Strategies for incident response and cyber crisis cooperation (25 August 2016) , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/strategies -for-incident -response -and-cyber -crisis-
cooperation/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2016c), NIS Directive , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cybersecurity -policy/nis -
directive -new . 
ENISA (2018), Good practices on interdependencies between OES and DSPs (November 
2018) , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/good-practices -on-interdependencies -
between- oes-and- dsps/@@download/fullReport . 
ENIS A (2019a) , EU Member States incident response development status report (27 November 
2019) , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/eu- ms-incident -response -development -status -
report/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2019b), Secure Group Communications for incident response and operational 
communities , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/secure-group- communications . 
ENISA (2021), EU Member States test rapid Cyber Crisis Management , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/enisa- news/eu- member -states -test-rapid-cyber -crisis-
management . 
ENISA (2022a), Cyber Europe 2022: After Action Report , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cyber -europe-2022 -after -action -
report/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2022b), ENISA Threat Landscape 2022 (October 2022) , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/enisa- threat -landscape-
2022/@@download/fullReport . 
ENISA (2023a), Cybersecurity Support Action, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cybersecurity -support -action . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 50 ENISA (2023b), Interoperable EU Risk Management Framework , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable-eu -risk-management -framework . 
ENISA (2023c), Interoperable EU Risk Management Toolbox , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable-eu -risk-management -toolbox . 
ENISA (2023d), ENISA Single Programming Document 2023 –2025 , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/corporate-documents/enisa -single -programming -
report -2023- 2025 . 
ENISA (n.d.), ‘ Cyber Europe ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/training-and -exercises/cyber -
exercises/cyber -europe- programme. 
ENISA (n.d.); ‘ Business Resumption Plan’ , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/risk -
management/current -risk/bcm- resilience/bc -plan/business -resumption -plan . 
ENISA (n.d.), ‘ Cyber  Crisis Management ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cyber -crisis-
management . 
ENISA (n.d.), ‘EU-CyCLONe ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/incident -response/cyclone . 
ENISA (n.d.), ‘ Interdependencies ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cybersecurity -policy/nis -
directive -new/Interdependencies_OES_and_DSPs . 
European Commission (2016) , ‘FAQ: Joint Framework on countering hybrid threats ’, 6 April 
2016, https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEMO_16_1250 . 
European Commission (2020) , Joint communication to the European Parliament and the 
Council  – The EU’s Cybersecurity Strategy for the Digital Decade, JOIN(2020)  18, 
16 December,  https://digital -strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/eus -cybersecurity- strategy -digital-
decade-0 . 
European Commission (2022) , Strategic crisis management in the EU . Independent expert 
report, Scientific Advice Mechanism, Scientific Opinion No  13 (22 November 2022) , 
https://allea.org/wp -content/uploads/2022/11/ec_rtd_sam -crisis -management -opinion.pdf . 
European Commission (2023b) , ‘Joint Statement by United States Secretary of Homeland 
Security Mayorkas and European Union Commissioner for Internal Market Breton’,  26 January 
2023,  https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_23_394 . 
European Commission (2023c) , Commission communication  – 2023 Strategic Foresight Report: 
Sustainabi lity and people’s wellbeing at the heart of Europe’s Open Strategic Autonomy, 
COM(2023)  376, 6 July, https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52023DC0376. 
European Commission (n.d.) , ‘Directive on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity 
across the Union (NIS2 Directive)  – FAQs ’, https://digital -
strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/faqs/directive-measures -high-common -level -cybersecurity -across -
union- nis2-directive -faqs . 
European Commission (n.d.) , ‘What are good practices? ’, https://ec.europa.eu/migrant -
integration/page/what -are- good-practices_en. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 51 European Economic and Social Committee (2020) , EESC opinion: Cybersecurity and Resilience 
of Critical Entities , TEN/730 -EESC-2020, 1.12.2020,  https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/our -
work/opinions -information-reports/opinions/cybersecurity -and-resilience -critical -entities . 
NIS Cooperation Group (2018a) , Reference document on security measures for Operators of 
Essential Services , CG Pu blication 01/2018 , February 2018, 
https://ec.europa.eu/information_society/newsroom/image/document/2018-
30/reference_document_security_measures_0040C183-FF20 -ECC4 -
A3D11FA2A80DAAC6_53643.pdf . 
NIS Cooperation Group (2018b) , Cybersecurity Incident Taxonomy , CG Publication 04/2018 , 
July 2018, https://ec.europa.eu/information_society/newsroom/image/document/2018-
30/cybersecurity_incident_taxonomy_00CD828C -F851-AFC4 -0B1B416696B5F710_53646.pdf . 
OFFICIAL MEMBER STATE DOCUMENTS AND WEBSITES  
Belgium  
Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (2015) , Annual Report 2015, 
https://c cb.belgium.be/sites/default/files/documents/FODB13_6002_RA15_Chancelerie_Brochu
re_Cyber_Security_PP_NL1.pdf . 
Centre for Cyber Security Belgium (2021) , Stratégie Cybersécurité Belgique 2.0 (2021– 2025) 
(Cybersecurity Strategy Belgium 2.0 (2021– 2025)) , 
https://ccb.belgium.be/sites/default/files/CCB_Strategie%202.0_FR_DP2.pdf . 
DNS Belgium (n.d.) , ‘Partners for a safe Belgian internet ’, https://www.dnsbelgium.be/en/smart -
online/partners . 
Germany  
Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) (2023a) , Sichere, zeitgemäße Kommunikation 
innerhalb der Netze des Bundes mit Wire (Secure, up- to-date communication within the federal 
networks with Wire), pp.  1–64, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/BSI/Publikationen/Magazin/BSI -
Magazin_2020_02.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=4. 
Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) (2023b) , Qualifizierte APT -Response Dienstleister 
(Qualified APT response service pr oviders) , 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/BSI/Cyber -
Sicherheit/Themen/Dienstleister _APT-Response-Liste.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=17 . 
Estonia 
Information System Authority (n.d.) , Kriisivalmisolek ja õppused  (Preparedness for crises and 
cyber exercises) , ISA official website, https://www.ria.ee/kuberturvalisus/kriitilise -infrastruktuuri -
kuberkaitse/kriisivalmisolek -ja-oppused. 
Information System Authority (n.d.) , IT baseline security system ISKE , ISA o fficial website , 
https://www.ria.ee/en/cyber -security/management -state -information-s ecurity -measures/it -
baseline -security- system-iske . 
Information System Authority (n.d.) , Estonian information security standard (E -ITS), ISA o fficial 
website, https://www.ria.ee/en/cyber -security/management -state -information -security -
measures/information-security -standard-e- its. Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 52 Spain 
Asociación Española para el Fomento de la Seguridad de la Información (2020), Guía para la 
Gestión de Crisis por Ciberincidente en la cadena de suministro (Guidance for cyber incident 
crisis management in the supply chain), ISMS Forum, May 2020, 
https://www.ismsforum.es/ficheros/descargas/guia-para- la-gestion -de-crisis -por-
ciberincidente.pdf . 
National Intelligence Centre (2020), Gestión de Cibercrisis. Buenas prácticas en la gestión de 
crisis de ciberseguridad (Cyber crisis management. Best practices in cybersecurity crisis 
management) , CCN-CERT , https://www.ccn -cert.cni.es/informes/informes -de-buenas -practicas -
bp/5425-ccn -cert-bp -20-buenas -pra- cticas- en-la -gestio -n-de- cibercrisis/file.html . 
France  
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2018) , Mapping the information 
system , https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/guide/mapping-the -information -system/ . 
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems ( 2020 ), Référentiels d’ exigence: PRIS , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/administration/qualifications/prestataires -de-services- de-confiance-
qualifies/referentiels -exigences/#referentiel- pris. 
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2021a) , Crisis of cyber origin: the keys 
to operational and strategic management , 
https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_gestion_crise_cyber_en.pd
f. 
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2021b) , Organising a cyber crisis 
management exercise, https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2021/09/anssi-guide-
organising_a_cyber_crisis_management_exercise- v1.0.pdf . 
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2022) , Anticipating and managing 
your cyber crisis communication, https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2022/05/20220516_np_anssi_guide_com_crise_cyber_en1.pdf
. 
National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (2023) , Publication of a cyber crisis 
management self -assessment tool, https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/en/actualite/publication -of-a-cyber -
crisis -management -self-assessment -tool/ . 
Italy 
National Cybersecurity Agency  (2022) , National Cybersecurity Strategy 2022– 2026, 
https://www.acn.gov.it/ACN_EN_Strategia.pdf . 
Lithuania  
Government of the Republic of Lithuania (2016) , Resolution on the approval of the National 
Cyber Incident Management Plan (29 January 2016) , https://www.e -
tar.lt/portal/en/legalAct/2a916390c5b211e583a295d9366c7ab3. 
Netherlands  
Anti-DDoS -Coalitie (2020) , ‘Increasing the Netherlands’ DDoS resilience together ’, 
https://www.nomoreddos.org/en/increasing-the -netherlands -ddos -resilience -together/ . Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 53 Anti-DDoS -Coalitie (n.d.) , ‘About the coalition’,  https://www.nomoreddos.org/en/about -the-
coalition/ . 
National Coordinator for Counterterrorism and Security (2022) , Landelijk Crisisplan Digitaal 
(National Crisis Plan Digital) , Ministry of Justice and Security , 23 December , 
https://www.nctv.nl/documenten/publicaties/2022/12/23/landelijk -crisisplan -digitaal . 
National Cyber Security Centre (2022) , Crisismanagement en crisiscommunicatie bij digitale 
incidenten (Crisis m anagement and crisis) , Ministry of Justice and Security (March 2022) . 
Poland  
CERT.PL ( 2023), ‘ Artemis – CERT Polska verifies the cybersecurity of Polish organizations’, 
25 January,  https://cert.pl/en/posts/2023/01/artemis -scanning/ . 
Ministry of Digital Affairs (2019) , Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland for 2019 –
2024, https://www.gov.pl/attachment/6a4aafc6-e339- 4cd5 -a8e6-cd47257f02d8 . 
NASK (n.d.), ‘ National Cybersecurity Platform ’, https://en.nask.pl/eng/activities/science-and -
business/research- projects/2088,National -Cybersecurity -Platform.html . 
Portugal  
Instituto da Defesa Nacional  (n.d.) , Cyber Security and Crisis Management in Cyberspace 
Course,  https://www.idn.gov.pt/en/education/coursescatalogue/stp/cyber . 
Finland  
National Cyber Security Centre (2020) , Instructions for organising cyber exercises: A manual for 
cyber exercise organisers , 
https://www.kyberturvallisuuskeskus.fi/sites/d efault/files/media/file/Instructions for organising 
cyber exercises.pdf . 
RESEARCH  
Ansell, C, Boin, A. and Keller, A. (2010) , ‘Managing transboundary crises: Identifying the 
building blocks of an effective response system ’, Journal of Contingencies and Cris is 
Management , Vol.  18, pp.  195–207, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1468-
5973.2010.00620.x . 
Backman, S. (2021) , ‘Conceptualizing cyber crises ’, Journal of Contingencies and Crisis 
Management, Vol. 29, No  4, pp.  429–438, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1468-
5973.12347. 
Backman, S. (2023) , ‘Making sense of l arge- scale cyber incidents ’, Stockholm Studies in 
International Relations 2023(1) , pp. 1–45, https://www.diva -
portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1745765/FULLTEXT01.pdf . 
Backman, S.  and Rhinard, M. (2018) , ‘The European Union’ s capacities for managing crises ’, 
Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management , Vol. 26, No 2, pp. 261–271, 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1468- 5973.12190 . 
Boecke, S. (2017) , ‘National cyber crisis management: Different European approaches ’, 
Governance , Vol. 31, No  2, pp.  1–16, https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Sergei -
Boeke/publication/319483832_National_cyber_crisis_management_Different_European_approBest Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 54 aches/links/5bf3cb30299bf1124fdfa37f/National -cyber -crisis -management -Different -European-
approaches.pdf . 
Boin, A. (2019) , ‘The transboundary crisis: Why we are unprepared and the road ahead’,  
Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management , Vol. 27, No 1, pp.  95–99, 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1468- 5973.12241 . 
Boin, A., Ekengren, M.  and Rhinard,  M. (2020) , ‘Hiding in pla in sight: Conceptualizing the 
creeping crisis’, Risk, Hazards & Crisis in Public Policy , Vol. 11, No  2, pp. 116–138, 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/rhc3.12193 . 
Boin, A.  and Rhinard, M. (2022) , ‘Crisis management performance and the European Union: the 
case of COVID -19’, Journal of  European Public Policy,  Vol. 30, No 4, pp. 655–675, 
DOI:10.1080/13501763.2022.2141304, 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/13501763.2022.2141304 . 
Collier, J. (2017) , ‘Strategies of c yber crisis management: Lessons from the approaches of 
Estonia and the United Kingdom ’, in Taddeo, M. and Glorioso, L. (eds) (2017) , Ethics and 
Policies for Cyber Operations , Springer,  Cham,  pp. 187–212, 
https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:58dedb26-9851-463d-88a6-
c8ad80769485/download_file?file_format=application/pdf&safe_filename=strategies -of-cyber -
crisis -management+(published).pdf&type_of_work=Working+paper . 
Cyber Security Competence for Research and Innovation (CONCORDIA) (2022) , DDoS 
Clearing House Cookbook , Horizon 2020 Program me (2014 –2020) , Deliverable D3.6: DDoS 
Clearing House Platform , https://www.concordia -h2020.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2023/03/PREPRINT -D3-6_DDoS_Clearing_House_Cookbook.pdf . 
De Thomas Colatin, S. (2020) , ‘Si vis cyber pacem, para sanctiones: the EU Cyber Diplomacy  
Toolbox in action’,  CCDCOE , https://ccdcoe.org/library/publications/si -vis-cyber -pacem -para-
sanctiones -the-eu-cyber -diplom acy-toolbox -in-action/ . 
Estall, H . (2023) , ‘ISO 22361:2022 – Crisis Management Guidelines: a closer look ’, Continuity 
Central , https://www.continuitycentral.com/index.php/news/business -continuity -news/8182- iso-
22361- 2022-crisis -management -guidelines -a-closer -look . 
EU Cyber Direct (2018) , ‘EU Coordinated Response to Large -Scale Cybersecurity Incidents and 
Crises ’, https://eucyberdirect.eu/atlas/sources/eu -coordinated-response-to -large- scale -
cybersecurity- incidents -and-crises . 
Ezioni, L.  and Siboni, G. (2021) , ‘Chapter 1 – Cyber crisis management regulation’, in Ezioni, L. 
and Siboni, G.  (eds), Cybersecurity and Legal -Regulatory Aspects , World Scientific , 2021, 
https://www.worldscientific.com/doi/abs/10.1142/9789811219160_0001 . 
France24 (2017) , “France’ s Renault hit in worldwide ‘ransomware’   cyber attack ”, (14 May) , 
https://www.france24.com/en/20170512- cyberattack -ransomware -renault -worldwide -british-
hospitals . 
Government of South Australia (2020) , Premier and Cabinet Circular: Cyber Security Incident 
Management (PC042) , https://www.security.sa.gov.au/documents/documents/Premier -and-
Cabinet -Circular -042-Cyber -Security -Incident -Management.pdf . 
Le Gédard, M. (2020), ‘Gestion de crise et chaînes cyber:  organisation européenne et française’ 
(Crisis management and cyber chains: European and French organisation), Institut des hautes Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 55 études du ministère de l’Intérieur, https://www.ihemi.fr/articles/organisation -france -europe -
cybersecurite -cyberdefense-V2 . 
Leal, R. (2021) , ‘Explanation of the most common business continuity terms ’, Advisera , 
https://advisera.com/27001academy/blog/2021/01/18/explanation- of-most -common -business -
continuity -terms/ . 
National Cyber Security Centre, ‘ Incident management ’, https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/section/about-
ncsc/incident -management . 
Norwegian Ministries (2019) , National Cyber Security Strategy for Norway , Norwegian 
Government Security and Service Organisation , 
https://www.regjeringen.no/contentassets/c57a0733652f47688294934ffd93fc53/national- cyber -
security -strat egy-for-norway.pdf . 
Prevezianou, M.F. (2021) , ‘WannaCry as a Creeping Crisis ’, in Boin, A., Ekengren, M.  and 
Rhinard, M. (eds) , Understanding the Creeping Crisis , Palgrave Macmillan, Cham , 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3- 030-70692- 0_3. 
Prime Minister ’s Office , National Cyber Directorate (Israel) (2018) , National cyber concept for 
crisis preparedness and management , Cyber Israel , 
https://www.gov.il/BlobFolder/news/cybercrisispreparedness/en/Management%20of%20crisis%
20situations%20english%20final.pd f. 
RFI (2017) , ‘Renault not only ransomware victim in France ’, 15 May, 
https://www.rfi.fr/en/economy/20170515-renault -not-only -ransomware -victim -france . 
SAPEA (2022), Strategic crisis management in the European Union, Evidence Review Report 
No. 11, https://allea.org/wp -content/uploads/2022/11/crisis -management -report. pdf. 
Schuetze, J. (2021) , ‘The EU ’s Response to SolarWinds ’, Council on Foreign Relations , 
https://www.cfr.org/blog/eus -response -solarwinds . 
Seabrooke, L. (2018) , ‘Europe’ s fast - and slow-burning crises ’, Journal of European Public 
Policy , Vol. 26, No 9, pp.  468–481, 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/epdf/10.1080/13501763.2018.1446456?needAccess=true&role
=button . 
Segal, E. (2021) , ‘7 Crisis Management Lessons From Colonial Pipeline’ s Response To Cyber 
Attack ’, 8 May, Forbes , https://www.forbes.com/sites/edwardsegal/2021/05/08/colonial -pipeline-
cyber -attack -is-providing- crisis -management -lessons -in-real-time/?sh=2671f5d83d82 . 
World Economic Forum (2022) , The Global Risks Report 2022 (17th Edition) , 
https://www.weforum.org/reports/global -risks -report -2022/ . 
 
 
 
  Best Practices for C yber Crisis Management  
February 2024 
 
 
 56 ANNEX : ENISA’S 
KNOWLEDGE  BASE 
This table summarises ENISA ’s knowledge base per phase.  
Phase Source  
Phase 1 – 
Prevention  • ENISA (2018), Good practices on interdependencies between OES and 
DSPs (November 2018),  https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/good-
practices -on-interdependencies -between- oes-and-dsps . 
• ENISA (2019), Secure Group Communications for incident response and 
operational communities , https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/secure -
group- communications . 
• ENISA, ‘ Interdependencies ’, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cybersecurity -policy/nis -directive -
new/Interdependencies_OES_and_DSPs . 
Phase 2 – 
Preparedness  • ENISA (2013), National -level Risk Assessments: An Analysis Report 
(19 November 2013) . 
• ENISA (2013),  Report on Second International Conference on Cyber -crisis 
Cooperation and Exercises (24 October 2013).  
• ENISA (2014),  Report on Cyber Crisis Cooperation and Management , 
6 November.  
• ENISA (2016),  Common practices of EU- level crisis management and 
applicability to the cyber crisis (4 April 2016).  
• ENISA (2022),  Cyber Europe 2022: After Action Report . 
• ENISA (2023),  Cybersecurity Support Action , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cybersecurity -support -action.  
• ENISA (2023), Interoperable EU Risk Management Framework , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -framework . 
• ENISA (2023), Interoperable EU Risk Management Toolbox,  
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/interoperable- eu-risk-
management -toolbox . 
• ENISA , ‘Cyber Europe’,  https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/training- and-
exercises/cyber- exercises/cyber- europe- programme . 
• ENISA , ‘Cyber Crisis Management ’, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/cyber -crisis- management . 
• ENISA , ‘EU-CyCLONe ’, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/topics/incident -
response/cyclone . 
Phase 3 – Response  • ENISA (2016), Strategies for incident response and cyber crisis cooperation  
(25 August 2016) . 
• ENISA (2019), EU Member States incident response development st at us 
report  (27 November 2019) . 
• ENISA (2023),  Cybersecurity Support Action , 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cybersecurity -support -action.  
Phase 4 – Recovery  • ENISA , ‘Business Resumption Plan ’, 
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cybersecurity -support -action .  
 
 ABOUT ENISA  
The European Union Agency for Cybersecurity, ENISA, is the EU agency dedicated to 
achieving a high common level of cybersecurity across Europe. Established in 2004 and strengthened by the EU Cybersecurity Act, ENISA contributes to EU cyber policy, enhances the trustworthiness of ICT products, services and processes with cybersecurity certification schemes, cooperates with Member States and EU bodies and helps Europe prepare for the cyber challenges of tomorrow. Through knowledge sharing, capacity building and awareness raising, the agency works together with its key stakeholders to strengthen trust in the connected economy, to boost resilience of the EU’s infrastructure and, ultimately, to keep Europe’s society and citizens digitally secure. More information about ENISA and its work can be found here: www.enisa.europa.eu.  
 
 
TP-05-23-461-EN-N 
ISBN 978-92-9204 -658-3 
doi: 10.2824/767828  