2025 Strategic 
Roadmap for 
Cybersecurity
Leadership
Pedro Pablo Perea de Duenas, Tom Scholtz 
Tisha Bhambry
23 August 2024Gartner ResearchGartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 1 of 212025 Strategic Roadmap for Cybersecurity
Leadership
23 August 2024  - ID G00811077  - 24 min read
By: Pedro Pablo Perea de Duenas, Tom Scholtz, Tisha Bhambry
Initiatives:  Cybersecurity Leadership; Build and Optimize Cybersecurity Programs
The increasingly complex threat landscape requires cybersecurity
leaders to balance comprehensiveness with agility. This roadmap
offers actionable steps and resources to establish and reﬁne
cybersecurity programs by combining cyber risk management
activities, capabilities, people and technology.
Overview
Key Findings
Recommendations
Cybersecurity leaders must develop strategic roadmaps that:The acquisition, creation and delivery of technology is moving from central IT
functions to lines of business. As a result, top-down cybersecurity operating models
fail to align to business needs or effectively manage risk.■
Strategic planning processes that follow strict stage-gates and static assessments
fail to adapt to shifting business needs, evolving threats and emerging technology.
In short, waterfall planning fails to support agile businesses.■
Employees often adopt new technology, such as GenAI, before understanding the
cybersecurity implications of their decisions. While these actions are typically well-
intentioned (e.g., innovation, efﬁciency), they rarely consider the associated risks.■
Human behavior signiﬁcantly impacts cyber risk — yet traditional, compliance-based
approaches to security awareness fail to change employees’ behavior as desired.■
Cybersecurity leaders face an overwhelming supply of cybersecurity vendors and
services. As cybersecurity programs grow, they often add solutions with overlapping
and redundant capabilities; this leads to more complexity and less effectiveness.■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 2 of 21Introduction
Historically, cybersecurity has been treated in isolation, focusing primarily on technical
safeguards and often positioning cybersecurity leaders as obstacles to innovation.
However, with security now recognized as a business risk, a strategic and risk-based
approach is essential. The digital shift and technologies like GenAI demand adaptive
security leadership and evolving models.
This context forces security teams to play a critical role in strategic decision making and
achieving organizational goals, moving from a background function to a cornerstone of
business success.
Cybersecurity leaders are also challenged to foster a culture of security that promotes
safer behaviors and practices. This involves getting rid of the old label of obstruction to
become champions of innovation.Assess and evolve their security operating model to meet business needs and drive
collaborative strategic decisions.■
Shift to a dynamic approach for enhancing the cybersecurity program and
continuously adapting it to organizational and environmental changes through
collaborative risk management, regular security assessments, environmental
scanning and scenario planning.■
Enable secure AI initiatives — such as generative AI (GenAI) — to enhance business
operations by establishing security requirements, guiding the use of AI and
communicating its potential risks to support informed decision making.■
Develop a security behavior and culture program that considers practices, inﬂuences
and platforms to foster and embed more secure employee behavior to reduce
cybersecurity risk. Continuously monitor and assess the program’s effectiveness for
ongoing improvement.■
Optimize security tool adoption by evaluating new features in existing technologies
before procuring new solutions. Regularly evaluate platform rationalization
opportunities to enhance organization risk posture and efﬁciency.■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 3 of 21Cybersecurity strategy should always support and enable
business priorities and outcomes. Yet only 60% of cybersecurity
functions significantly change their strategies is response to
shifting business objectives.¹
— 2023 Gartner Evolution of the Cybersecurity Leader and Their
Function Survey
Cybersecurity leaders should enable projects and add value by aligning with the
organization’s strategic direction and adopting a more dynamic operational model.
The 2025 Strategic Roadmap for Cybersecurity Leadership outlines a path for
cybersecurity leaders to embrace innovation, enable inherently dynamic operations and
adopt a forward-thinking approach to managing risks. The roadmap is structured around
core components of a strategic roadmap (see Figure 1):
A detailed analysis of cybersecurity’s current state ■
Top identiﬁed cybersecurity gaps ■
A comprehensive migration plan ■
The targeted future state ■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 4 of 21Figure 1: 2025 Strategic Roadmap for Security Leadership
Future State
Strong security leadership serves as the foundation for developing a robust security
program, and it plays a vital role in guiding organizations toward achieving their goals.
The future state goals that cybersecurity leaders should pursue include:
Security as a Business Enabler
Security  as a business  enabler ■
■ A dynamic security program
■ Safe GenAI adoption
■ Employee  buy-in to a security culture
■ Effective security tool selectionGartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 5 of 21The democratization of technology acquisition, creation and delivery is reshaping the
landscape of business operations. Today, these functions extend beyond the IT
department, becoming part of the business lines themselves. In this evolving context, the
future state will feature:
A Dynamic Security Program
To address evolving threats and changes, cybersecurity leaders must continually adapt
their programs. This ensures agility and responsiveness, balancing defense with business
growth.
The future state of a dynamic security program will feature:An adaptive security operating model: Cybersecurity operating models must be
inherently ﬂexible and responsive, aligning with the business’s needs for autonomy,
innovation and agility. This alignment ensures that security not only responds to
current challenges, but also anticipates and supports future business
transformations.■
Strategic role and responsibility distribution to foster collaboration:  Roles and
responsibilities within security and business units will be clearly deﬁned yet
adaptable, promoting effective collaboration. This strategic distribution ensures that
security considerations are seamlessly integrated into business initiatives,
operations and strategic planning.■
Security embedded in every business initiative:  Having an inﬂuential security team
aligned with the business is key for effective security by design. This approach
aligns security directly with business objectives, enhancing both resilience and
agility. Security’s active participation in business initiatives guarantees that security
measures are effectively incorporated from the start.■
Embedded collaborative risk management and periodic assessments:  Collaborative
risk management will serve as the strategic foundation, enabling informed decisions
as threats and organizational context evolve. This will be complemented by carefully
selected, targeted periodic assessments such as cybersecurity practices, control and
functional maturity, compliance, and third-party cyber risk.■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 6 of 21Safe GenAI Adoption
For safe GenAI adoption, cybersecurity leaders should collaborate with stakeholders and
GenAI initiative owners to manage associated risks. This will help to enable informed
decisions, rather than block them, to harness GenAI’s full potential safely, securely and
ethically.
The future state will feature :
Employee Buy-In to a Security Culture
To encourage employees to be more security-conscious in all their actions, 
cybersecurity  programs must change employee attitudes toward cybersecurity. This 
goes beyond traditional awareness training and aims to instill a security mindset 
throughout the  organization.Strategic use of environmental scanning and scenario planning:  The practice of
environmental scanning to identify external trends, threats and opportunities will
become an indispensable input to sharpen security programs. This approach,
combined with scenario planning, will equip organizations to navigate and prepare
for diverse future landscapes, aligning security strategies with business goals.■
Robust AI security governance:  This includes comprehensive policies and
guidelines tailored to manage the security risks inherent in GenAI technologies. They
ensure the secure, safe and ethical development, deployment, and operational use of
GenAI systems.■
AI trust, risk and security management (TRiSM) implementation: AI TRiSM ensures
governance, trustworthiness, fairness, reliability, robustness, efﬁcacy, security and
data protection for AI models and applications. It encompasses model monitoring,
interpretability, explainability, anomaly detection, data protection, model
management, adversarial attack resistance, and AI-speciﬁc application security.■
AI integration in cybersecurity:  Cybersecurity leaders consider leveraging the
potential of AI capabilities to enhance the security posture and overall efﬁciency,
which involves acquiring or implementing AI-driven tools to detect threats, automate
responses and perform other key operations.■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 7 of 21Effective Security Tool Selection
Selecting the right security tools can greatly underpin the success of a security program,
making some operations more efﬁcient, facilitating cyber risk management, threat
detection and other key operations. The goal is to maintain a minimum effective toolset
for security.
The future state includes:
Current State
C
ybersecurity leaders often focus on daily tasks, which, though essential, can divert
attention from strategic activities needed to enhance and prepare the cybersecurity
program for evolving threats and challenges.Long-term behavioral improvement program: A  rolling multiyear initiative is ﬁrmly
established, transforming, and then embedding, more secure employee behaviors.
This program will systematically promote secure employee behaviors and mitigate
practices that pose cybersecurity risks, effectively instilling security consciousness
as a vital pillar of the organization’s culture.■
Cultivated security-conscious mindset: Employees at all levels and in all roles
across the organization will be mindful of cybersecurity and inherently undertake
their work as securely as possible. Cybersecurity leaders will make sure that
managers understand they are responsible for ensuring this.■
Behavior-centric metrics for success: The organization will use speciﬁc outcome-
and behavior-driven metrics to gauge the effectiveness of its security culture. These
metrics will provide quantiﬁable evidence of how security behaviors have improved
over time.■
Maximizing and extending current technologies:  The organization will maximize the
potential of its current technological investments. This approach prioritizes
leveraging the capabilities of existing tools over acquiring new solutions, and
includes exploring technologies or services provided by current vendors that could
offer extended capabilities through contact adjustments.■
Regular platform rationalization:  The organization will regularly assess and
evaluate existing security technologies and services to ﬁnd out opportunities for
consolidation, always seeking to enhance the security operations and avoid
redundant investments.■This future state will feature:Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 8 of 21Today, many security programs have these attributes:
Siloed View of Security
Security teams often operate in isolation, focusing on technical security measures without
integrating a broader business perspective. This isolation stems from:
A siloed approach misaligns security efforts with business objectives, undermining
effectiveness. The challenge grows with the increasing volume, complexity and dispersion
of IT initiatives, making it infeasible for cybersecurity teams to make and review every
decision.
Static Cybersecurity Approach
Organizations often rely on a static cybersecurity approach, characterized by repetitive
practices and predetermined controls. While effective against known risks, this method
struggles with novel and rapidly evolving cyberthreats, technological advances and shifts
in organizational strategies.A siloed view of security and limited collaboration with business stakeholders ■
A static cybersecurity approach that cannot adapt operations easily to changing
environments and business priorities■
An unstructured reaction to GenAI, leading to increased risk ■
“Awareness activities” that have insufﬁcient impact on human behavior and culture ■
Uncoordinated tool selection to support security program capabilities ■
Legacy perspectives that cybersecurity is purely an IT problem, often fostered by
traditional organizational structures where the security team was part of the IT
organization.■
A historical divide in the organization structure between security and business
functions, where each has developed a distinct culture and language.■
A lack of effective understanding and communication about the strategic
importance of security to the organization’s overall goals. Skilled staff shortages
exacerbate this.■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 9 of 21Furthermore, cyber risk programs and investments within organizations are predominantly
focused on compliance, potentially overlooking emerging threats. Additionally, these risk
management efforts are generally periodic, which may not always consider signiﬁcant
organizational changes or new initiatives.
Scanning the external environment for trends and threats is often overlooked. Bypassing
this action may restrict organizations’ ability to anticipate technological shifts, emerging
threats and regulatory changes, which can lead to misalignment between cybersecurity
strategies and broader business objectives.
Unstructured Reaction to GenAI Leading to Increased Risk
Units within organizations often aggressively pursue technological advancements like
GenAI to gain a competitive edge or streamline operations. However, rushing to adopt new
technologies without considering risks increases vulnerability to threat actors.
The situation worsens when employees, motivated by productivity gains or curiosity, use
these technologies without understanding their security implications. Consequences such
as exposing sensitive company data are often the result. The lack of speciﬁc policies and
comprehensive guidelines for safe technology use further compounds the issue,
reinforcing a fragmented approach to cybersecurity. Additionally, security teams often
exhibit a reluctance toward GenAI initiatives, instead of working toward appropriate risk
management activities.
Awareness Activities With Insufficient Impact on Human Behavior and Culture
Organizations may try to boost awareness of cybersecurity, but awareness alone does not
go far enough:
■
■Gartner research found that 93% of employees performing unsecured actions in the 
workplace already knew their behavior increased risk to their organization, 2 
indicating that security awareness training alone has little inﬂuence on employee 
work practices.
The Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report showed that 68% of all data 
breaches involved a human element, and nearly 30% of all data breaches involved 
phishing and other social engineering attacks. 3
Organizations often use training completion rates (84%) and phishing simulation 
click-through rates (72%) as the primary metrics to measure the effectiveness of 
their security awareness programs, according to a study by the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology. 4■Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 10 of 21While these performance indicators might help meet cybersecurity compliance 
obligations, they do not demonstrate that security awareness training effectively reduces 
overall cybersecurity risk.
Cybersecurity leaders are increasingly acknowledging that merely raising employee 
security awareness is insufﬁcient for minimizing cybersecurity risk from avoidable 
employee actions. When examining current security awareness initiatives, which primarily 
consist of delivering security awareness training and running phishing simulations, most 
organizations ﬁnd that these efforts achieve little beyond regulatory compliance. The 
impact on changing human behavior and culture within organizations is very limited.
Uncoordinated Tool Selection
Organizations and speciﬁcally cybersecurity leaders sometimes tend to address 
productivity and efﬁciency challenges in security programs by acquiring new tools and 
technologies, frequently without an adequate and comprehensive analysis to ensure that 
the tools meet their speciﬁc needs. This habit can lead to increased costs of security 
programs without delivering expected returns.
Many organizations tend to overlook the potential of existing tools before analyzing a 
new purchase. They may then miss opportunities to enhance their security program and 
capabilities through extensions or additional features offered by current vendors.
Gap Analysis and Interdependencies
To successfully navigate the journey forward, cybersecurity leaders can conduct a 
comprehensive analysis to identify the gaps between the current state and the envisioned 
future state. This involves pinpointing areas where the organization´s current 
cybersecurity program and strategy may not fully meet the needs, and assessing the 
severity of these gaps to prioritize certain initiatives. To measure this severity, 
organizations can use a combination of cybersecurity functional and control-level 
assessments.
Gartner offers specialized tools to conduct these two types of maturity assessments,  
which also provide benchmarking data and help with the prioritization: capability maturity 
assessment and controls maturity assessment.Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 11 of 21IT Score for Security and Risk Management (IT Score for SRM) : This tool allows  
organizations to conduct a maturity self-assessment of the security function, allowing 
organizations to evaluate the capabilities of their cybersecurity program and help with 
strategic planning and resource allocation. It gauges the performance across seven 
functional security objectives and 30 key management activities (see Figure 2). 
Organizations can choose to assess all or a subset of these activities based on their 
speciﬁc needs.
Figure 2: IT Score for SRM: Functional Activity Map
Capability Maturity AssessmentGartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 12 of 21Source: Gartner
Unlike the IT Score for SRM, the CCA requires responses to all of the previous control 
areas without the option to select subsets.
Table 1 links the different aspects that are assessed in both tools to the gaps identiﬁed in 
Figure 1:
The second column shows the recommended objectives and capabilities from the IT
Score for Security and Risk Management (SRM) tool that help to determine the
severity of the different gaps.■
Although the CCA tool does not allow analysis of speciﬁc control domains to
analyze, the third column speciﬁes the most pertinent control domains related to
each identiﬁed gap. For these domains, the tool provides detailed maturity insights
and benchmarking data regardless of the framework selected.■Controls Maturity Assessment
Cybersecurity Controls Assessment (CCA) : The CCA provides a view of the cybersecurity  
control maturity of the organization. It is aligned with industry-recognized frameworks 
and standards such as ISO 27002:2022,  NIST 800-53 rev 5 and CIS 18 v8.0. This self-
assessment also provides a peer benchmarking tailored to speciﬁc industry and risk  
exposure levels (see Figure 3).
Figur e 3: Cybersecurit y Control s AssessmentGartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 13 of 21Table 1: Gaps vs. Objectives, Capabilities and Control Domains
(Enlarged table in Appendix)
Assessment results offer a proposed prioritization of speciﬁc capabilities and controls
based on three critical criteria: maturity, importance  and benchmarking.  These
evaluations, when considered alongside organizational factors such as context and risk
appetite, are instrumental in guiding cybersecurity leaders to set the target maturity levels
for controls and capabilities, and therefore identifying the gaps.
Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 14 of 21Note that there are many alternative maturity assessments available, including
proprietary and free tools. In addition, the results of risk assessments, vulnerability
assessments, penetration tests and audit ﬁndings can provide valuable additional
insights.
Migration Plan
Following the execution of assessments such as the Cybersecurity Control Assessment
(CCA) and the IT Score for SRM, cybersecurity leaders will gain valuable insight about
their gaps and their goals.
The reports from such assessments provide actionable information that will aid in
bridging these gaps. These actions are instrumental in achieving the described future
state.
Figure 4 outlines the actions.
Figure 4: Strategic Roadmap Timeline for Cybersecurity Leadership
Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 15 of 21This prioritization has been done based on Gartner analysts’ observations from research 
and client interactions. Cybersecurity leaders must ensure that their teams are working on 
the actions from the strategic roadmap that offer the greatest business impact. The order 
of the actions can be adjusted according to the speciﬁc organization’ s context, priorities  
and other factors. For guidance on security portfolio prioritization, see Security Portfolio  
Prioritization: How to Structure and Assess Security Investment Decisions.
Higher Priority
Adapt Your Security Operating Model for Business Alignment
The security operating model adaptation requires redeﬁning boundaries and 
responsibilities to enable quicker decision making and increased adaptability to evolving 
security landscapes. Each department and business unit must clearly understand its role 
in this dynamic setting. Organizations should adapt the security operating model to 
enhance business autonomy, innovation and agility. See CISO Effectiveness: Security  
Operating Models Are Evolving.
Cybersecurity leaders should strive to become facilitators of cybersecurity risk decisions 
by actively engaging with business stakeholders and promoting good cyber judgment. To 
that end, implement a well-deﬁned responsible, accountable, supporting, consulted and 
informed (RASCI) matrix, approved, informed and periodically reviewed by the 
cybersecurity committee, to delineate clear cybersecurity roles and responsibilities 
across the organization. See Tool: Cybersecurity Program RASCI Matrix.
A well-represented security steering committee with members from various business units 
helps cybersecurity leaders to ensure a comprehensive understanding of business needs 
and serves as the primary mechanism to drive appropriate and timely investment and 
resource allocation decisions. See CISO Foundations: How a Steering Committee 
Enhances Cybersecurity Governance.
Finally, the roles and responsibilities previously deﬁned in the RASCI matrix and the 
establishment of a security committee should be formalized as part of an enterprise  
information security charter. See Tool: Enterprise Information Security Charter Template.
Enable Secure AI Use and Adoption by Establishing Secure Practices
Due to the expanding use and adoption of GenAI, organizations should deﬁne and 
implement security measures to address the emerging risks that this poses. Cybersecurity 
leaders need to prepare for the impacts from generative AI and guide how their 
organizations build and consume it. To learn about these impacts and how to address  
them, see 4 Ways Generative AI Will Impact CISOs and Their Teams.Gartner, Inc. | G00811077 Page 16 of 21Owners of AI adoption initiatives are ultimately responsible for ensuring the monitoring of 
AI systems in use to actively identify and mitigate any deviations or unintended 
outcomes. Cybersecurity leaders can deﬁne the protocols and provide guidance on these 
aspects. The GenAI TRiSM market comprises multiple software and services segments 
that continuously support security, data protection and risk mitigation for adopters of 
GenAI applications and model interactions.  See Innovation Guide for Generative AI in  
Trust, Risk and Security Management.
Rapid AI adoption is forcing cybersecurity leaders to quickly create security guidance for 
GenAI development, acquisition and use. To formalize these practices and provide a 
structured approach to managing AI risks, Gartner recommends developing a generative 
AI security policy. Use Tool: Generative AI Security Policy Template.
Medium Priority
Enable Your Security Program to Be Dynamic and Adaptable
A security program requires continuous evolution and should never be considered static or 
only updated annually. Ongoing reﬁnement helps security measures and activities remain 
effective and relevant. A security program must:
Figure 5 models the key components of the security program.Have a clear mandate from executive leadership ■
Establish and enforce clear owner accountability ■
Invest in risk assessment capabilities with the intent to optimize risk management
outcomes aligned to an agreed-on and deﬁned risk appetite■
Reference accepted standards (while avoiding mindless compliance) ■
Be clearly linked to the unique business context of the organization ■
Support digitalization strategies ■
Focus on continuous improvement ■
Be agile enough to quickly respond to changing threats and scenarios ■
Support formal, repeatable security processes ■
Position your organization for success. Explore these additional 
complimentary resources and tools for cybersecurity leaders: Actionable, objective insight
Already a client?  
Get access to even more resources in your client portal. Log InRoadmap
IT Roadmap for Cybersecurity
Create a resilient, scalable and agile 
cybersecurity strategy.
Download NowReport
Cybersecurity Trends: Optimize 
for Resilience and Performance
Use this report to equip your cybersecurity 
function for greater resilience.
Download Now
eBook
Leadership Vision for Security 
and Risk Management Leaders
Explore the top 3 strategic priorities for 
security and risk management leaders.
Download NowWebinar
Strengthen Your Cybersecurity 
Leadership to Navigate Evolving 
Security Landscape
Explore this 5-part series for insights into 
the evolving landscape.
Watch NowConnect With Us
Get actionable, objective insight that drives smarter decisions and 
stronger performance on your mission-critical priorities. Contact us 
to become a client:
U.S.:  1 855 811 7593
International: +44 (0) 3330 607 044
Become a Client
Learn more about Gartner for Cybersecurity Leaders  
gartner.com/en/cybersecurity
Stay connected to the latest insight
© 2025 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. CM_GTS_3370038