 
 
The below entities collaborated in the creation of this guide.   This does not constitute or imply 
an endorsement by the FCC of any commercial product, service or enterprise of these entities. 
This guide is not a substitute for consulting trained cyber security professionals.  
 
 Cyber Security  
Planning Guide  
 
TC-1
Table of Contents 
S e c t i o n            P a g e  # s  
Thank you for using the FCC’s Small Biz Cyber Planner,  a tool for small businesses to create customized cyber 
security planning guides.  Businesses large and small need to do more to protect against growing cyber threats.  As 
larger companies take steps to secure their systems, less secure small businesses are easier targets for cyber criminals. 
This planning guide is designed to meet the specific need s of your company, using the FCC’s customizable Small Biz 
Cyber Planner tool.  The tool is designed  for businesses that lack the resources to hire dedicated staff to protect their 
business, information and customers from  cyber threats.  Even a business with one computer or one credit card 
terminal can benefit from this important tool. We gene rally recommend that businesses using more sophisticated 
networks with dozens of computers cons ult a cyber security expert in addition to using the cyber planner. The FCC 
provides no warranties with respect to the guidance provide d by this tool and is not responsible for any harm that 
might occur as a result of or in spite of its use. 
The guidance was developed by the FCC with input from public and private sect or partners, including the Department 
of Homeland Security, the National Cyber Security Alliance and The Chamber of Commerce. 
Privacy and Data Security PDS-1 - PDS-5
Scams and Fraud SF-1 - SF-3
Network Security NS-1 - NS-3
Website Security WS-1 - WS-5
Email E-1 - E-2
Mobile Devices MD-1 - MD-3
Employees EMP-1 - EMP-3
Facility Security FS-1 - FS-2
Operational Security OS-1 - OS-3
Payment Cards PC-1 - PC-2
Incident Response and Reporting IRR-1 - IRR-2
Policy Development, Management PDM-1 - PDM-3
Cyber Security Glossary CSG-1 - CSG-10
Cyber Security Links CSL-1 - CSL-3Privacy and Data Security 
 
 
 
Data security is crucial for all small businesses. Customer and client information, payment information, personal 
files, bank account details - all of this information is of ten impossible replace if lost and dangerous in the hands of 
criminals. Data lost due to disasters such as a flood or fire is devastating, but losing it to hackers or a malware 
infection can have far greater consequences. How you handle and protect your data is central to the security of your 
business and the privacy expectations of customers, employees and partners. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Conduct an inventory to help you answer the following questions: 
 
• What kind of data do you have in your business? 
 
A typical business will have all kinds of data, some of it more valuable and sensitive than others, but all data has 
value to someone. Your business data may include cust omer data such as account records,  transaction 
accountability and financial information, contact and address information, purchasing hist ory,  buying habits and 
preferences, as well as employee information such as payro ll files, direct payroll accoun t bank information, Social 
Security numbers, home addresses and phone numbers, work  and personal email addresses. It can also include 
proprietary and sensitive business information such as financial records, marketing plans, product designs, and state, 
local and federal tax information. 
 
• How is that data handled and protected? 
 
Security experts are fond of saying that data is most at risk when it’s on the move. If all your business-related data 
resided on a single computer or server that is not connected to the Internet, and never left that computer, it would 
probably be very easy to protect. 
 But most businesses need data to be moved and used throughout the company. To be meaningful data must be 
accessed and used by employees, analyzed and researched fo r marketing purposes, used to contact customers, and 
even shared with key partners. Every time data moves, it can be exposed to different dangers. 
 As a small business owner, you should have a straightforward plan and policy – a set of guidelines, if you like – 
about how each type of data should be handled, validated  and protected based on where it is traveling and who will 
be using it. 
 
• Who has access to that data and under what circumstances? 
 Not every employee needs access to all of your information.  Your marketing staff shouldn’t need or be allowed to 
view employee payroll data and your administrative staff may not need access to all your customer information. 
 When you do an inventory of your data and you know exactly what data you have and where it’s kept, it is important 
to then assign access rights to that data. Doing so simply means creating a list of the specific employees, partners or 
contractors who have access to specifi c data, under what circumstances, and how those access privileges will be 
managed and tracked. 
 
Your business could have a variety of data, of varying value, including: 
 
• Customer sales records 
• Customer credit card transactions 
• Customer mailing and email lists 
• Customer support information 
 
 PDS-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDS-2• Customer warranty information 
• Patient health or medical records 
• Employee payroll records 
• Employee email lists 
• Employee health and medical records 
• Business and personal financial records 
• Marketing plans 
• Business leads and enquiries 
• Product design and development plans 
• Legal, tax and financial correspondence 
 
2. Once you've identified your data, keep  a record of its location and move it 
to more appropriate locations as needed. 
 
3. Develop a privacy policy 
 
Privacy is important for your business and your customers. Continued trust in your business practices, products and 
secure handling of your clients’ unique information impact s your profitability. Your privacy policy is a pledge to 
your customers that you will use and protect their information in ways that they expect and that adhere to your legal 
obligations. 
 
Your policy starts with a simple and clear statement de scribing the information you collect about your customers 
(physical addresses, email addresses, browsing history, etc), and what you do with it. Customers, your employees 
and even the business owners increasi ngly expect you to make their privacy a priority. There are also a growing 
number of regulations protec ting customer and employee privacy and often costly penalties for privacy breaches. 
You will be held accountable for what you claim and offer in your policy. 
 
That’s why it’s important to create your privacy policy with  care and post it clearly on your website. It’s also 
important to share your privacy policies, rules and expectations with all employees and partners who may come into contact with that information. Your employees need to be familiar with your legally required privacy policy and what it means for their daily work routines. 
 
Your privacy policy will should address the following types of data:  
• Personally Identifiable Information:  Often referred to as PII, this information includes such things as 
first and last names, home or business addresses, email addresses, credit card and bank account numbers, taxpayer identification numbers, patient numbers and Social Security numbers. It can also include gender, 
age and date of birth, city of birth or residence, driver’s license number, home and cell phone numbers. 
 
• Personal Health Information : Whether you’re a healthcare provider with lots of sensitive patient 
information or you simply manage health or medical information for a small number of employees, it’s 
vital that you protect that information. A number of studies have found most consumers are very concerned about the privacy and protection of their medical records. They do not want their health information falling 
into the hands of hackers or identity thieves who might abuse it for financial gain. But they also may not 
want employees or co-workers prying into their personal health details. And they often don’t want future 
employers or insurers finding out about any medical conditions or history. 
 
• Customer information : This includes payment information such as credit or debit card numbers and 
verification codes, billing and shipping addresses, email addresses, phone num bers, purchasing history, 
buying preferences and shopping behavior. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDS-3The Better Business Bureau has a copy of a privacy policy that you are free to download and use.  It is available 
here: http://www.bbbonline.org/reliability/privacy/ . 
 
4. Protect data collected on the Internet 
 
Your website can be a great place to collect informati on – from transactions and pa yments to purchasing and 
browsing history, and even newsletter signups, online enquiries and customer requests. 
 
This data must be protected, whether you host your own website and therefore manage your own servers or your website and databases are hosted by a third party such as a web hosting company. 
 
If you collect data through a website hosted by a third party, be sure that third party protects that data fully. Apart 
from applying all the other precautions th at have been described, such as classifying data and controlling access, you 
need to make sure any data collected through your website and stored by the third party is sufficiently secure. That 
means protection from hackers an d outsiders as well as employees  of that hosting company. 
 
5. Create layers of security  
 Protecting data, like any other security challenge, is about crea ting layers of protection. The idea of layering security 
is simple: You cannot and should not rely on just one security mechanism – such as a password – to protect 
something sensitive. If that security mechanism fails, you have nothing left to protect you. 
 
When it comes to data security, there are a number of key procedural and technical layers you should consider: 
 
Inventory your data  
 
We mentioned before the need to conduct a data inventor y so you have a complete picture of all the data your 
business possesses or controls. It’s essential to get a complete inventory, so you don’t overlook some sensitive data 
that could be exposed. 
 
Identify and protect your sensitive and valuable data  
 
Data classification is one of the most important steps in  data security. Not all data  is created equal, and few 
businesses have the time or resources to provide maximum protection to all their data.  That’s why it’s important to 
classify your data based on how sensitive or valuable it is – so that you know what your most sensitive data is, 
where it is and how well it’s protected. 
 
Common data classifications include: 
 
HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL: This classifi cation applies to the most sensitive business information that is 
intended strictly for use within your company.  Its unauthorized disclosure could seriously and adversely impact your company, business partners, vendors and/or customers in the short and long term. It could include credit-card transaction data, customer names and addresses, card magnetic stripe contents, 
passwords and PINs, employee payroll files, Social Security numbers, patient information (if you’re a 
healthcare business) and similar data. 
 
SENSITIVE: This classification applies to sensitive bus iness information that is intended for use within 
your company, and information that you would consider to be private should be included in this 
classification.  Examples include employee performance evaluations, internal audit reports, various 
financial reports, product designs, partnership agreements, marketing plans and email marketing lists. 
 
INTERNAL USE ONLY: This classifica tion applies to sensitive information that is generally accessible by 
a wide audience and is intended for use only within  your company. While its unauthorized disclosure to  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDS-4outsiders should be against policy and may be harmful, the unlawful disclosure of the information is not 
expected to impact your company, employees, business partners, vendors and the like. 
 
Control access to your data  
 
No matter what kind of data you have, you must control access to it. The more sensitive the data, the more 
restrictive the access. As a general rule, access to data should be on a need-to-know basis. Only individuals who have a specific need to access certain data should be allowed to do so. 
 Once you’ve classified your data, begi n the process of assigning access privileges and rights – that means creating a 
list of who can access what data, under what circumstances, wh at they are and are not allowed to do with it and how 
they are required to protect it.  As part of this process, a business should consider developing a straightforward plan and policy – a set of guidelines – abou t how each type of data should be handl ed and protected based on who needs 
access to it and the level of classification.  
Secure your data  
 
In addition to administrative safeguar ds that determine who has access to wh at data, technical safeguards are 
essential. The two primary safeguards for data are passwords and encryption. 
 
Passwords implemented to protect your most sensitive data should be the strongest they can reasonably be. That means passwords that are random, comple x and long (at least 10 characters), that are changed regularly and that are 
closely guarded by those who know them.  Employee training on the basics of secure passwords and their importance is a must.  
Passwords alone may not be sufficient to protect sensitiv e data. Businesses may want to consider two-factor 
authentication, which often combines a password with another verification method, such as a dynamic personal 
identification number, or PIN. 
 
Some popular methods of two-factor identification include: 
 Something the requestor individually knows as a secret, such as a password or a PIN.  
 Something the requestor uniquely possesses, such as a passport, physical token or ID card.  
 Something the requestor can uniquely provide as biom etric data, such as a fingerprint or face geometry. 
 Another essential data protection technology is encryption.  Encryption has been used to protect sensitive data and 
communications for decades, and today’s encryption is very affordable, easy-to-use and highly effective in protecting data from prying eyes. 
 
Encryption encodes or scrambles information to such an advanced degree that it is unreadable and unusable by 
anyone who does not have the proper key to unlock the data. The key is like a password, so it’s very important that 
the key is properly protected at all times. 
 Encryption is affordable for even the smallest business, and some encryption software is free. You can use 
encryption to encrypt or protect an entir e hard drive, a specific folder on a dr ive or just a single document. You can 
also use encryption to protect data on a USB or thumb drive and on any other removable media.   
 
Because not all levels of encryption are created equal, businesses should consider using a data encryption 
method that is FIPS-certified (Feder al Information Processing Standard),  which means it has been certified for 
compliance with federal government security protocols.  
Back up your data  
Just as critical as protecting your data is backing it up. In th e event that your data is stol en by thieves or hackers, or 
even erased accidentally by an employee, you will at least have a copy to fall back on.   
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDS-5 
Put a policy in place that specif ies what data is backed up and how; how of ten it’s backed up; who is responsible for 
creating backups; where and how the backups are stored; and who has access to those backups. 
 Small businesses have lots of affordable backup options, whether it’s backing up to an external drive in your office, 
or backing up automatically and online so that all your data is stored at a remote and secure data center. 
 
Remember, physical media such as a disc or drive used to store a data backup is vulnerable no matter where it is, so 
make sure you guard any backups stored in your office or off site and also make sure that your backup data storage 
systems are encrypted.  
6. Plan for data loss or theft 
 Every business has to plan for the unexpected, and that includes the loss or theft of data from your business. Not only can the loss or theft of data hurt your business, brand and customer confidence, it can also expose you to the 
often-costly state and federal regulations that cover data protection and privacy.  Data loss can also expose businesses to significant litigation risk.  
That’s why it’s critical to understand exactly what data or security breach regulations affect your business and how 
prepared you are to respond to them. That should be the foundation of a data breach response plan that will make it easier to launch a rapid and coordinated response to any loss or theft of data. 
 
At the very least, all employees and contractors should understand that they must immediately report any loss or theft of information to the appropriat e company officer. And because data privacy and breach laws can be very 
broad and strict, no loss should be ignored. So even if you have sensitive data that just can’t be accounted for, such as an employee who doesn’t remember where he left a backup tape, it may still constitute a data breach and you 
should act accordingly. 
 
And just in case you don’t think a data breach could happen  at your small business, think about this. In 2010, the 
U.S. Secret Service and Verizon Communications Inc.'s fo rensic analysis unit responded to a combined 761 data 
breaches. Of those, 482, or 63 percent, were at companies with 100 employees or  fewer. And in 2011 Visa estimated 
that about 95 percent of the credit-card data breaches it discovers are on its smallest business customers. 
 The Online Trust Alliance has a comprehensive guide to unde rstand and preparing for data breaches, available at 
https://otalliance.org/resour ces/2011DataBreachGuide.pdf
. 
 The Federal Trade Commission has materials to help small businesses secure data in their care and protect their 
customers’ privacy, including an interactive video tutorial, at http://business.ftc.gov/privacy-and-security
.  
 Scams and Fraud 
 
 
 
New telecommunication technologies may offer countless opportunities for small businesses, but they also offer 
cyber criminals many new ways to victimize your business, scam your customers and hurt your reputation.  
Businesses of all sizes should be aware of the most common scams perpetrated online. 
 To protect your business against online scams, be cautious when visiting web links or opening attachments from 
unknown senders, make sure to keep all software updat ed, and monitor credit cards for unauthorized activity.  
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 1. Train employees to rec ognize social engineering 
 Social engineering, also known as "pretexting," is used by many criminals, both online and off, to trick unsuspecting 
people into giving away their personal information and/or installing malicious software onto their computers, 
devices or networks. Social engineering is successful beca use the bad guys are doing their best to make their work 
look and sound le gitimate, sometimes even helpful, which makes it easier to deceive users.  
 
Most offline social engineering occurs  over the telephone, but it frequently occurs online, as well. Information 
gathered from social networks or posted on websites can be enough to create a convincing ruse to trick your 
employees. For example, LinkedIn profiles, Facebook posts and Twitter messages can allow a criminal to assemble 
detailed dossiers on employees. Teaching people the risks involved in sharing personal or business details on the 
Internet can help you partner with your staff to prevent both personal and organizational losses. 
 Many criminals use social engineering tactics to get indivi duals to voluntarily install malicious computer software 
such as fake antivirus, thinking they are doing something that will help make them more secure. Fake antivirus is 
designed to steal information by mimicking legitimate security software.  Users who are tricked into loading 
malicious programs on their computers may be providing remote control capabilities to an attacker, unwittingly 
installing software that can steal financial information or si mply try to sell them fake security software. The malware 
can also make system modifications which make it difficu lt to terminate the program. The presence of pop-ups 
displaying unusual security warnings and asking for credit card or personal information is the most obvious method 
of identifying a fake antivirus infection.  
2. Protect against online fraud 
 
Online fraud takes on many guises that  can impact everyone, in cluding small businesses and their employees. It is 
helpful to maintain consistent and predictable online messaging when communicating with your customers to 
prevent others from impersonating your company.  
 Be sure to never request personal information or account details through email, social networking or other online 
messages. Let your customers know you will never request this kind of information through such channels and 
instruct them to contact you directly should they have any concerns.  
3. Protect against phishing 
 
Phishing is the technique used by online criminals to trick people into thinking they are dealing with a trusted 
website or other entity. Small businesses face this threat from two directions -- phishers may be impersonating them 
to take advantage of unsuspecting customers, and phishers may be trying to steal their employees’ online 
credentials. Attackers often take advantage of curren t events and certain types of the year, such as: 
 
• Natural disasters (Hurricane Katrina, Indonesian tsunami) 
 
 SF-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 SF-2• Epidemics and health  scares (H1N1) 
• Economic concerns 
• Major political elections  
• Holidays  
 
Businesses should ensure that their online communications never ask their customers to submit sensitive information 
via email, personal visits, or phone. Make a clear statem ent in your communications reinforcing that you will never 
ask for personal information via email so that if someone targets your customers, they may realize the request is a 
scam.   
Employee awareness is your best defense against your users being tricked into handing over their usernames and 
passwords to cyber criminals. Explain to everyone that they should never respond to incoming messages requesting private information. If a stranger claims  to be from a legitimate organization, verify his or her identity with his or 
her stated company before sharing any personal or classified information. Also, to avoid being led to a fake site, employees should know to never click on a link sent by email from an untrustworthy source. Employees needing to access a website link sent from a questionable source should open an Internet browser window and manually type in 
the site’s web address to make sure the emailed link is not maliciously redirecting to a dangerous site. 
 This advice is especially critical fo r protecting online banking accounts belonging to your organization. Criminals 
are targeting small business banking accounts more than any other sector. If you believe you have revealed sensitive 
information about your organization, make sure to: 
• Report it to appropriate people within your organization 
• Contact your financial institution and close any accounts  that may have been compromised (if you believe 
financial data is at risk) 
• Change any passwords you may have revealed, and if you used the same password for multiple resources, 
make sure to change it for each account 
 
4. Don’t fall for fake antivirus offers 
 
Fake antivirus, "scareware" and other ro gue online security scams have been behind some of the most successful 
online frauds in r ecent times. Make sure your organization has a policy in place explaining what the procedure is if 
an employee's computer beco mes infected by a virus. 
 
Train your employees to recognize a legitimate warning message (using a test file from eicar.org , for example) and 
to properly notify your IT team if something bad or questionable has happened. 
If possible, configure your computers to not allow regular users to have administrative access. This will minimize 
the risk of them installing malicious software and condition users that adding unauthorized software to work computers is against policy. 
 
5.  Protect against malware 
 Businesses can experience a compromise through the introduction of malicious software, or malware. Malware can 
make its way onto machines from the Internet, downloads, attachments, email, social media, and other platforms. 
One specific malware to be aware of is key logging, which is malware that tracks a user’s keyboard strokes.   
Many businesses are falling victim to key-logging malware being installed on computer systems in their 
environment. Once installed, the malw are can record keystrokes made on a computer, allowing bad guys to see 
passwords, credit card numbers and other confidential data. Keeping security software up to date and patching your 
computers regularly will make it more difficult for th is type of malware to infiltrate your network.  
 
  
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 SF-36. Develop a layered approach to guard against malicious software 
 
Despite progress in creating more awaren ess of security threats on the Intern et, malware authors are not giving up. 
The malware research firm SophosLabs reports seeing more than 100,000 unique malicious software samples every 
single day. 
 Effective protection against viruses, Trojans and other malicious software requires a layered approach to your 
defenses. Antivirus software is a must, but should not be a company’s only line of defense. Instead, deploy a 
combination of many techniques to keep your environment safe.  
Also, be careful with the use of thumb drives and other removable media.  These media could have malicious 
software pre-installed that can infect your computer, so  make sure you trust the source of the removable media 
devices before you use them.  Combining the use of web filtering, antivirus signature pr otection, proactive malware protection, firewalls, strong 
security policies and employee training significantly lowers the risk of infection. Keeping protection software up to 
date along with your operating system and applications increases the safety of your systems.   
7. Be aware of spyware and adware 
 
Spyware and adware, when installed will send pop-up ads, redirect to certain websites, and monitor websites that 
you visit. Extreme versions can track what keys are typed. Spyware can cause your computer to become slow and 
also leaves you susceptible to privacy theft. If you are subject to endless pop-up windows or are regularly redirected 
to websites other than what you type in your browser,  your computer is likely infected with spyware. 
 
To remove spyware run an immediate full scan of your computer with anti-vi rus software and if necessary run a 
legitimate product specifically designed to remove spyware. To avoid being infected with spyware, limit cookies on your browser preferences, never click on links within pop-up windows, and be wary of free downloadable software from unreputable sources. 
 
8. Verify the identity of telephone information seekers 
 
Most offline social engineering occurs  over the telephone. Information gathered through social networks and 
information posted on websites can be enough to create a convincing ruse to trick your employees.  
Ensure that you train employees to never disclose custom er information, usernames, passwords or other sensitive 
details to incoming callers. When someone requests information, always contact the person back using a known 
phone number or email account to ve rify the identity and validity of the individual an d their request. 
 
Helpful links 
 
• Use the Department of Homeland Security’s Stop .Think.Connect.™ Campaign’s resources created 
especially for businesses to train their employees: www.dhs.gov/stopthinkconnect   
• Find the most updated patches for your computer and software applications: 
http://www.softwarepatch.com/  
• Free computer security scan tools for your PC or network: 
http://www.staysafeonline.org/tools -resources/free-security-check-ups 
• Stay on top of the latest scams, frauds  and security threats as they happen: http://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/   
• Additional tops to prevent against phishing: 
http://www.fraud.org/scams/internet-fraud/phishing  
• Learn how to resist phishing techniques with 
this interactive game: 
http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/antiphishing_phil/ 
 Network Security  
 
 
 
Securing your company’s network consists of: (1) identifyi ng all devices and connections on the network; (2) setting 
boundaries between your company’s systems and others; and (3) enforcing controls to ensure that unauthorized 
access, misuse, or denial-of-service events can be thwarted or  rapidly contained and recovere d from if they do occur. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Secure internal network and cloud services 
 Your company’s network should be separated from the public Internet by strong user authentication mechanisms 
and policy enforcement systems such as firewalls and we b filtering proxies. Additional monitoring and security 
solutions, such as anti-virus software and intrusion detection systems, should also be employed to identify and stop malicious code or unauthorized access attempts. 
  
Internal network 
 
After identifying the boundary points on  your company’s network, each boundary  should be evaluated to determine 
what types of security controls are necessary and how they can be best deployed. Border routers should be 
configured to only route traffic to and from your company’s public IP addresses, firewalls should be deployed to 
restrict traffic only to and from the minimum set of necessary services, and intrusion prevention systems should be 
configured to monitor for suspicious activity crossing your  network perimeter. In order to prevent bottlenecks, all 
security systems you deploy to your company’s network perimeter should be capable of handling the bandwidth that 
your carrier provides. 
 
Cloud based services 
 Carefully consult your terms of service with all cloud se rvice providers to ensure that your company’s information 
and activities are protected with the same degree of security you would intend to provide on your own. Request 
security and auditing from your cloud service providers as applicable to your company’s needs and concerns. 
Review and understand service level agreements, or SLAs, for system restoration and reconstitution time. 
 You should also inquire about additional services a cloud service can provide. These services may include backup-
and-restore services and encryption services, which may be very attractive to small businesses. 
 
2. Develop strong password policies 
 Generally speaking, two-factor authentication methods, which require two types of evidence that you are who you 
claim to be, are safer than using just static passwords fo r authentication. One common exam ple is a personal security 
token that displays changing passcodes to be used in conjunction with an established password. However, two-factor 
systems may not always be possibl e or practical for your company. 
 
Password policies should encourage your employees to employ the strongest passwords possible without creating 
the need or temptation to reuse passwords or write them down. That means passwords th at are random, complex and 
long (at least 10 characters), that ar e changed regularly, and that are closely guarded by those who know them. 
 
   
 
  NS-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 NS-23. Secure and encrypt your company’s Wi-Fi 
 
Wireless access control  
Your company may choose to operate a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) for the use of customers, guests and 
visitors. If so, it is important that such a WLAN be kept separate from the main company network so that traffic from the public network cannot traverse the company’s internal systems at any point. 
 
Internal, non-public WLAN access should be restricted to specific devices and specific users to the greatest extent 
possible while meeting your company’s business needs. Wher e the internal WLAN has less stringent access controls 
than your company’s wired network, dual connections  -- wh ere a device is able to connect to both the wireless and 
wired networks simultaneously -- should be prohibited by technical controls on each such capable device (e.g., 
BIOS-level LAN/WLAN switch settings). All users should be given unique credentials with preset expiration dates 
to use when accessing the internal WLAN. 
 
Wireless encryption 
 Due to demonstrable security flaws known to exist in ol der forms of wireless encryption, your company’s internal 
WLAN should only employ Wi-Fi Pr otected Access 2 (WPA2) encryption. 
 
4. Encrypt sensitive company data 
 Encryption should be employed to protect any data that your company considers sensitive, in addition to meeting 
applicable regulatory requirements on information safeguarding. Different encryption schemes are appropriate under 
different circumstances. However, applications that comp ly with the OpenPGP standard , such as PGP and GnuPG, 
provide a wide range of options for securing data on disk as well as in transit. If you choose to offer secure 
transactions via your company’s website, consult with yo ur service provider about available options for an SSL 
certificate for your site. 
5. Regularly update all applications 
All systems and software, including networking equipment, should be updated in a timely fashion as patches and firmware upgrades become available. Use automatic updating services whenever possible, especially for security systems such as anti-malware applications, web f iltering tools and intrusion prevention systems. 
6. Set safe web browsing rules  
 
Your company’s internal network should only be able to a ccess those services and resources on the Internet that are 
essential to the business and the needs of your employees. Use the safe browsing features included with modern web 
browsing software and a web proxy to ensure that malicious or unauthorized sites cannot be accessed from your 
internal network. 
 
7. If remote access is enabled, make sure it is secure 
 
If your company needs to provide remote access to your co mpany’s internal network over  the Internet, one popular 
and secure option is to employ a secure Virtual Privat e Network (VPN) system accompan ied by strong two-factor 
authentication, using either hardware or software tokens.  
8. Create Safe-Use Flash Drive  Policy  
 
Ensure employees never put any unknown flash drive or USBs into their computer.  As the U.S. Chamber’s Internet 
Security Essentials for Business 2.0  states, small businesses should set a policy so that employees know they should  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 NS-3never open a file from a flash drive they  are not familiar with and should hold down the Shift key when inserting the 
flash drive to block malware.  
 
Helpful links 
 
• Microsoft Password Strength Checker: 
https://www.microsoft.com/security/p c-security/passw ord-checker.aspx  
• Philip Zimmerman, Where to Get PGP:  http://philzimmermann.com/EN/findpgp/
 
• US-CERT Security Publications:  http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/
 
• NIST Special Publication 800-153, Draft Guidelin es for Securing Wireless Local Area Networks 
(WLANs):  http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-153/sp800-153.pdf
 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce: Internet 
Security Essentials for Business 2.0 
https://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/technology/files/ISEB-2.0-CyberSecurityGuide.pdf  
 Website Security  
 
 
 
Website security is more important than ever. Web servers,  which host the data and other content available to your 
customers on the Internet, are often the most targeted and attacked components of a company’s network. Cyber 
criminals are constantly looking for improperly secured websites to attack, while many customers say website 
security is a top consideration when they  choose to shop online. As a result, it is essential to secure servers and the 
network infrastructure that supports them. The consequences  of a security breach are great: loss of revenues, damage 
to credibility, legal liability an d loss of customer trust. 
 The following are examples of specifi c security threats to web servers: 
 
• Cyber criminals may exploit software bugs in the web server, underlying operating system, or active 
content to gain unauthorized access to the web serv er. Examples of unauthorized access include gaining 
access to files or folders that were not meant to be publicly accessible and being able to execute commands and/or install malicious software on the web server.  
• Denial-of-service attacks may be directed at the we b server or its supporting network infrastructure to 
prevent or hinder your website users from making use of its services. This can include preventing the user 
from accessing email, websites, online accounts or other services. The most common attack occurs when 
the attacker floods a network w ith information, so that it can ’t process the user’s request. 
• Sensitive information on the web server may be read or modified without authorization.  
• Sensitive information on backend databases that are used to support interactive elements of a web 
application may be compromised through the injectio n of unauthorized software commands. Examples 
include Structured Query Language  (SQL) injection, Lightweight Di rectory Access Protocol (LDAP) 
injection and cross-site scripting (XSS).  
• Sensitive unencrypted information transmitted between th e web server and the browser may be intercepted.  
• Information on the web server may be changed for malicious purposes. Website defacement is a commonly 
reported example of this threat.  
• Cyber criminals may gain unauthorized access to resources elsewhere in the organization’s network via a 
successful attack on the web server.  
• Cyber criminals may also attack external entities af ter compromising a web server. These attacks can be 
launched directly (e.g., from the compromised server against an external server) or indirectly (e.g., placing 
malicious content on the compromised web server that attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in the web 
browsers of users visiting the site).  
• The server may be used as a distribution point for att ack tools, pornography or illegally copied software.  
 
Cyber Plan Action Items: 
 
1. Carefully plan and address the secu rity aspects of the deployment of a 
public web server.  
 
Because it is much more difficult to address security once deployment and im plementation have occurred, security 
should be considered from the initial planning stage. Busine sses are more likely to make decisions about configuring 
computers appropriately and consistently when they develop and use a detailed, well-designed deployment plan. 
Developing such a plan will support web server administra tors in making the inevitable tradeoff decisions between 
usability, performance and risk.  
 Businesses also need to consider the human resource requirements for the deployment and continued operation of 
the web server and supporting infrastructure. The following points in a deployment plan:  
 
• Types of personnel required -- for example, system and web server administrators, webmasters, network 
administrators and information systems security personnel.  
 
 WS-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 WS-2• Skills and training required by  assigned personnel.  
• Individual (i.e., the level of effort required of specifi c personnel types) and collective staffing (i.e., overall 
level of effort) requirements.  
 
2. Implement appropriate security ma nagement practices and controls when 
maintaining and operating a secure web server.  
 
Appropriate management practices are e ssential to operating and maintaining a secure web server. Security practices 
include the identification of your company’s information system assets and the development, documentation and implementation of policies, and guidelines to help ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of 
information system resources. The following practices and controls are recommended:  
 
• A business-wide information system security policy.  
• Server configuration and change control and management.  
• Risk assessment and management. 
• Standardized software configurations that satisfy the information system security policy.  
• Security awareness and training.  
• Contingency planning, continuity of operations and disaster recovery planning.  
• Certification and accreditation.  
 
3. Ensure that web server operating sy stems meet your organization’s security 
requirements.  
 
The first step in securing a web server is securing the underlying operating system. Most commonly available web 
servers operate on a general-purpose operating system. Many security issues can be avoided if the operating systems 
underlying web servers are configured appropriately. Default hardware and software configurations are typically set 
by manufacturers to emphasize features, functions and ease of  use at the expense of security. Because manufacturers 
are not aware of each organization’s security needs, each web server administrator must configure new servers to reflect their business’ security requirements and reconfi gure them as those requirements change. Using security 
configuration guides or checklists can assist administrators  in securing systems consistently and efficiently. Initially 
securing an operating system initially generally includes the following steps:  
 
• Patch and upgrade the operating system.  
• Change all default passwords 
• Remove or disable unnecessary services and applications.  
• Configure operating system  user authentication.  
• Configure resource controls.  
• Install and configure additional security controls.  
• Perform security testing of the operating system.  
 
4. Ensure the web server applicatio n meets your organization’s security 
requirements.  
 
In many respects, the secure installation and configuratio n of the web server application will mirror the operating 
system process discussed above. The overarching principle is to install the minimal amount of web server services required and eliminate any known vulnerabilities through pa tches or upgrades. If the in stallation program installs 
any unnecessary applications, services or scripts, they should be removed immediately after the installation process 
concludes. Securing the web server application generally includes the following steps:  
 
• Patch and upgrade the web server application.  
• Remove or disable unnecessary services, applications and sample content.   
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 WS-3• Configure web server user authentication and access controls.  
• Configure web server resource controls.  
• Test the security of the web server application and web content.  
 
5. Ensure that only appropriate co ntent is published on your website.  
 
Company websites are often one of the first places cyber cr iminals search for valuable information. Still, many 
businesses lack a web publishing process or policy that dete rmines what type of information to publish openly, what 
information to publish with restrict ed access and what informa tion should not be published to any publicly 
accessible repository. Some generally accepted examples of wh at should not be published or at least should be 
carefully examined and reviewed before being published on a public website include:  
 
• Classified or proprietary business information. 
• Sensitive information relating to your business’ security. 
• Medical records. 
• A business’ detailed physical and information security safeguards. 
• Details about a business’ network and information system infrastructure -- for example, address ranges, naming conventions and access numbers. 
• Information that specifies or implies physical security vulnerabilities. 
• Detailed plans, maps, diagrams, aerial photographs and architectural drawings of business buildings, 
properties or installations. 
• Any sensitive information about individuals that might be subject to federal, state or, in some instances, international privacy laws. 
 
6. Ensure appropriate steps are ta ken to protect web content from 
unauthorized access or modification.   
Although information available on public websites is intended  to be public (assuming a credible review process and 
policy is in place), it is still important to ensure that information cannot be modified without authorization. Users of such information rely on its integrity even if the information is not confid ential. Content on publicly accessible web 
servers is inherently more vulnerable than information that is inaccessible fr om the Internet, and this vulnerability 
means businesses need to protect public web content through the appropriate configuration of web server resource 
controls. Examples of resource  control practices include:  
 
• Install or enable only necessary services.  
• Install web content on a dedicated hard drive or logical partition.  
• Limit uploads to directories that are not readable by the web server.  
• Define a single directory for all external scripts or programs executed as part of web content.  
• Disable the use of hard or symbolic links.  
• Define a complete web content access matrix identif ying which folders and f iles in the web server 
document directory are restricted, wh ich are accessible, and by whom.  
• Disable directory listings.  
• Deploy user authentication to identify approved users, digital signatures and other cryptographic 
mechanisms as appropriate.  
• Use intrusion detection systems, intrusion prevention syst ems and file integrity checkers to spot intrusions 
and verify web content.  
• Protect each backend server (i.e., da tabase server or directory server ) from command injection attacks.  
 
  
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 WS-47. Use active content judiciously after balancing the benefits and risks.  
 
Static information resided on the servers of most early webs ites, typically in the form of text-based documents. Soon 
thereafter, interactive elements were introduced to  offer new opportunities for user interaction.  
 
Unfortunately, these same interactive elements introduced new web-related vulnerabilities. They typically involve 
dynamically executing code using a large number of inputs, from web page URL parameters to hypertext transfer 
protocol (HTTP) content and, more r ecently, extensible markup language (X ML) content. Different active content 
technologies pose different related vuln erabilities, and their risks should be we ighed against their benefits. Although 
most websites use some form of active content generators, many also deliver some or all of their content in a static 
form. 
 
8. Use authentication and cryptographi c technologies as appropriate to 
protect certain types of sensitive data.  
 Public web servers often support technologies for identifying and authenticating users with differing privileges for 
accessing information. Some of these te chnologies are based on cryptographic functions that can provide a secure 
channel between a web browser client and a web server that supports encryption. Web servers may be configured to use different cryptographic algorithms, providing varying levels of security and performance.  
 
Without proper user authentication in place, businesses cannot selectively restri ct access to specific information. All 
information that resides on a public we b server is then accessible by anyone with access to the server. In addition, 
without some process to authenticate the server, users of the public web server will not be able to determine whether 
the server is the “authentic” web server or a counterfeit version operated by a cyber criminal.  
 Even with an encrypted channel and an authentication mechanism, it is possible that a ttackers may attempt to access 
the site by brute force. Improper authentication techniques can allow attackers to gather valid usernames or 
potentially gain access to the website. Strong authentication m echanisms can also protect ag ainst phishing attacks, in 
which hackers may trick users into providing their pers onal credentials, and pharming, in which traffic to a 
legitimate website may be redirected to an illegitimate  one. An appropriate level of authentication should be 
implemented based on the sensitivity of the web server’s users and content.  
9. Employ network infrastructure to help protect public web servers.  
 
The network infrastructure (e.g., firewalls, routers, intrusi on detection systems) that supports the web server plays a 
critical security role. In most configurations, the networ k infrastructure will be the first line of defense between a 
public web server and the Internet. Network design alone, though, cannot protect a web server. The frequency, 
sophistication and variety of web server attacks perpetrated today support the idea that web server security must be 
implemented through layered and diverse protection mechanis ms, an approach sometimes referred to as “defense-in-
depth.” 
 
10. Commit to an ongoing process of  maintaining web server security.  
 
Maintaining a secure web server requires constant effort , resources and vigilance. Securely administering a web 
server on a daily basis is essential. Maintaining the security  of a web server will usually involve the following steps:  
 
• Configuring, protecting and analyzing log files.  
• Backing up critical in formation frequently.  
• Maintaining a protected authoritative copy of your organization’s web content.  
• Establishing and following procedures for recovering from compromise.  
• Testing and applying patches in a timely manner.   
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 WS-5• Testing security periodically.  
 
 
 Email  
 
 
 
Email has become a critical part of our everyday business, from internal management to direct customer support. 
The benefits associated with email as  a primary business tool far outweigh the negatives. However, businesses must 
be mindful that a successful email platform starts with basi c principles of email security  to ensure the privacy and 
protection of customer and business information.  
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Set up a spam email filter 
 
It has been well documented that spam, phishing attempts and otherwise unsolicited and unwelcome email often 
accounts for more than 60 percent of a ll email that an individual or business receives.  Email is the primary method 
for spreading viruses and malware and it is one of the easie st to defend against. Consider using email-filtering 
services that your email service, hosting provider or other cloud providers offer. A local email filter application is 
also an important component of a solid antivirus strategy. Ensure that automatic updates are enabled on your email 
application, email filter and anti-virus programs. Ensure that  filters are reviewed regularly so that important email 
and/or domains are not blocked in error. 
 
2. Train your employees in responsible email usage 
 
The last line of defense for all of your cyber risk efforts lies with the employees who use tools such as email and 
their responsible and appropriate use and management of the information under their control.  Technology alone 
cannot make a business secure. Employees must be trained to identify risks associated  with email use, how and 
when to use email appropriate to thei r work, and when to seek assistance of professionals.  Employee awareness 
training is available in many forms, including printed media, videos and online training.   
 
Consider requiring security awareness training for all new employees and refresher courses every year.  Simple 
efforts such as monthly newsletters, urgent bulletins when new viruses are detected, and even posters in common 
areas to remind your employees of key security and privacy to-do’s create a work environment that is educated in protecting your business. 
 
3. Protect sensitive i nformation sent via email 
 
With its proliferation as a primary tool to communicate internally and externally, business email often includes 
sensitive information. Whether it is company information that  could harm your business or regulated data such as 
personal health information (PHI) or personally identifiabl e information (PII), it is important to ensure that such 
information is only sent and accessed by those who are entitled to see it.    
Since email in its native form is not designed to be secure, incidents of misaddressing  or other common accidental 
forwarding can lead to data leakage.  Businesses that handle this type of information should consider whether such 
information should be sent via email, or at least consider using email encryption. Encryption is the process of 
converting data into unreadable format to prevent disclosure to unauthorized personnel. Only individuals or 
organizations with access to the encryption key can read th e information.  Other cloud services offer “Secure Web 
Enabled Drop Boxes” that enable secure data transfer fo r sensitive information, which is often a better approach to 
transmitting between companies or customers. 
 
4. Set a sensible email retention policy  
 
Another important consideration is the management of email that resides on company messaging systems and your 
users’ computers. From the cost of storage and backup to legal and regulatory requirements, companies should 
 
 EM-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 EM-2document how they will handle email retention and implement basic controls to help them attain those standards. 
Many industries have specific rules that dictate how long emails can or should be retained, but the basic rule of 
thumb is only as long as it supports your business ef forts. Many companies implement a 60-90 day retention 
standard if not compelled by law to another retention period.   
 
To ensure compliance, companies should  consider mandatory archiving at a chosen retention cycle end date and 
automatic permanent email removal after another set poin t, such as180-360 days in archives.  In addition, 
organizations should discourage the use of personal folders on employee computers (most often configurable from the e-mail system level), as this will make it more difficult to manage company standards.  
 
5. Develop an email usage policy  
 
Policies are important for setting expectations with your employees or users, and for developing standards to ensure 
adherence to your published polices.    
Your policies should be easy to read, understand, define  and enforce.  Key areas to address include what the 
company email system should and should not be used for, and what data are allowed to be transmitted. Other policy 
areas should address retention, privacy and acceptable use.  
 
Depending on your business and jurisdiction, you may have a need for email monitoring.  The rights of the business and the user should be documented in the policy as well.  The policy should be part of your general end user-
awareness training and reviewed for updates on a yearly basis. 
 
For a sample email usage policy, see: http://www.s ans.org/security-resources/policies/Email_Policy.pdf 
  
 Mobile Devices  
 
 
 
If your company uses mobile devices to conduct compan y business, such as accessing company email or sensitive 
data, pay close attention to mobile security and the poten tial threats that can expose and compromise your overall 
business networks. This section describes the mobile threat environment and the practices that small businesses can 
use to help secure devices such as smartphones, tablets and Wi-Fi enabled laptops. 
 
Many organizations are finding that employees are most productive when using mobile devices, and the benefits are 
too great to ignore. But while mobility can increase workplace productivity, allowing employees to bring their own 
mobile devices into the enterprise can create signi ficant security and management challenges.   
 
Data loss and data breaches caused by lost or stolen phones create big challenges, as mobile devices are now used to 
store confidential business information and access the co rporate network. According to a December 2010 Symantec 
mobile security survey, 68 percent of respondents ranked lo ss or theft as their top mob ile-device security concern, 
while 56 percent said mobile malware is their number two concern. It is important to remember that while the 
individual employee may be liable for a device, the company is still liable for the data.  
 
Top threats targeting mobile devices   
 
• Data Loss  – An employee or hacker accesse s sensitive information from device or network. This can be 
unintentional or malicious, and is considered the biggest threat to mobile devices 
 
• Social Engineering Attacks  – A cyber criminal attempts to trick users to disclose sensitive information or install 
malware. Methods include phis hing and targeted attacks. 
 
• Malware  – Malicious software that includes traditional computer viruses, computer worms and Trojan horse 
programs. Specific examples include the Ikee worm, ta rgeting iOS-based devices; an d Pjapps malware that can 
enroll infected Android devices in a collection of ha cker-controlled “zombie” devices known as a “botnet.” 
 
• Data Integrity Threats  – Attempts to corrupt or modify data in order to disrupt operations of a business for 
financial gain. These can also occur unintentionally.  
 
• Resource Abuse  – Attempts to misuse network, device or identity resources. Examples include sending spam 
from compromised devices or denial of service attacks using computing resources of compromised devices. 
 
• Web and Network-based Attacks – Launched by malicious websites or compromised legitimate sites, these target 
a device’s browser and attempt to install malware or  steal confidential data that flows through it. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
A few simple steps can to help ensure company information is protected. These include requiring all mobile devices 
that connect to the business network be equipped with security software and password protection; and providing 
general security training to make employees aware of the importance of security practi ces for mobile devices. More 
specific practices are detailed below. 
 
1. Use security software on all smartphones  
 
Security software specifically designe d for smartphones can stop hackers an d prevent cyber criminals from stealing 
your information or spying on you when you use public networks. It can detect and remove viruses and other mobile 
threats before they cause you problems.  It can also e liminate annoying text and mu ltimedia spam messages.   
 
 
  MD-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 MD-22. Make sure all software is up to date 
 
Mobile devices must be treated like personal computers in that all software on the devices should be kept current, 
especially the security software. This will protect devices from new variants of malware and viruses that threaten your company’s criti cal information. 
 
3. Encrypt the data on mobile devices  
 
Business and personal information stored on mobile device s is often sensitive. Encrypting this data is another must. 
If a device is lost and the SIM card stolen, the thief will no t be able to access the data if the proper encryption 
technology is loaded on the device. 
 
4. Have users password protect access to mobile devices  
 
In addition to encryption and security updates, it is importa nt to use strong passwords to protect data stored on 
mobile devices. This will go a long way toward keeping a thief from accessing sensitive data if the device is lost or 
hacked. 
 
5. Urge users to be aware of their surroundings 
 
Whether entering passwords or viewing sensitive or confid ential data, users should be cautious of who might be 
looking over their shoulder. 
 
6. Employ these strategies for email,  texting and social networking  
 Avoid opening unexpected text messages from unknown senders  – As with email, attackers can use text 
messages to spread malware, phishing scams and other threats among mobile device users.  The same caution should be applied to opening unsolicited text messages that users have become accustomed to with email. 
 Don’t be lured in by spammers and phishers – To shield business networks from cyber criminals, small businesses should deploy appropriate email security solutions, including spam prevention, which protect a 
company’s reputation and manage risks. 
 Click with caution – Just like on stationary PCs, social networking on mobile devices and laptops should be 
conducted with care and cau tion. Users should not open unidentified links , chat with unknown people or visit 
unfamiliar sites. It doesn’t take much for a user to be tricked into compromising a device and the information on 
it. 
 
7. Set reporting procedures for lost or stolen equipment   
 
 In the case of a loss or theft, employees and management should all know what to do next. Processes to deactivate 
the device and protect its information from intrusion should be in place. Products are also available for the 
automation of such processes, allowing small businesses to breathe easier after such incidents.  
 
8. Ensure all devices are wi ped clean prior to disposal 
  
 Most mobile devices have a reset function that allows all data to be wiped. SIM cards should also be removed and destroyed. 
 
Helpful links:  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 MD-3 
• Teach your employees about mobile apps:  
http://onguardonline.gov/articles/0018-understanding-mobile-apps  
• Keep your laptops secure: 
 http://onguardonline.gov/articles/0015-laptop-security 
  
 
 Employees  
 
 
 
Businesses must establish formal recruitment and employmen t processes to control and preserve the quality of their 
employees. Many employers have learned the hard way that hiring someone with a criminal record, falsified 
credentials or undesirable background can create a legal and financial nightmare.  
 Without exercising due diligence in hiring, employers run the risk of making unwise hiring choices that can lead to 
workplace violence, theft, em bezzlement, lawsuits for ne gligent hiring and numerous other workplace problems.   
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Develop a hiring process that properly vets candidates 
 
The hiring process should be a co llaborative effort among different groups  of your organization, including 
recruitment, human resources, security, le gal and management teams.  It is important to have a solid application, 
resume, interview and reference-checki ng process to identify potential gaps and issues that may appear in a 
background check.    
An online employment screening resource called the “Online Sa fe Hiring Certification Course” can help you set the 
groundwork for a safe recruitm ent process. The course will teach your teams what to look for in the different stages 
of the hiring process, how to interview and how to set up a safe hiring program to avoid hiring an employee that may 
be problematic. The course is available here: http://www.esrcheck.com/ESR onlineSafeHir ingCourse.php
. 
 
2. Perform background checks and credentialing 
 
Background checks are essential and must be consistent. Using a background screening company is highly 
recommended. The standard b ackground screening should include the following checks:  
 
• Employment verification 
• Education verification 
• Criminal records 
• Drug testing 
• The U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Affairs and Control 
• Sex offender registries 
• Social Security traces and validation 
 
Depending on the type of your business, other screening criteria may consist of credit check, civil checks and federal 
criminal checks. Conducting post-hire checks for all employees every two to  three years, depending on your 
industry, is also recommended. 
 
If you do conduct background checks, you as an employer have obligations under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  
For more information about employer obligations under the FCRA, visit http://business.ftc.gov/documents/bus08-
using-consumer-reports-what-employers-need-know .   
 
3. Take care in dealing with third parties 
 Employers should properly vet partner companies through which your organization hires third-party consultants. To 
ensure consistent screening criteria are enforced for th ird-party consultants, you need to explicitly set the 
credentialing requirements in your serv ice agreement. State in the agreem ent that the company’s credentialing 
requirements must be followed.  
 
  EMP-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 EMP-24. Set appropriate access controls for employees 
 
Both client data and internal company data are consid ered confidential and need particular care when viewed, 
stored, used, transmitted or disposed. It  is important to analyze the role of each employee and set data access control 
based upon the role. If a role does not  require the employee to ever use sens itive data, the employee’s access to the 
data should be strictly prohibited. However, if the role requires the employee to work with sensitive data, the level 
of access must be analyzed thoroughly and be assigned in a controlled and tiered manner following “least-privilege” 
principles, which allow the employee to only access data  that is necessary to perform his or her job. 
 If the organization does not have a system in place to control data access, the following precautions are strongly 
recommended. Every employee should:  
• Never access or view client data without a valid bu siness reason. Access shou ld be on a need-to-know 
basis. 
• Never provide confidential data to anyone – client representatives, business partners or even other 
employees – unless you are sure of the identity and authority of that person. 
• Never use client data for development, testing, training presentations or any purpose other than providing 
production service, client-specific testing or production diagnostics. Only properly sanitized data that 
cannot be traced to a client, client employee, customer or your organization’s employee should be used for 
such purposes. 
• Always use secure transmission methods such as secure email, secure file transfer (from application to 
application) and encrypted electronic media (e.g., CDs, USB drives or tapes). 
• Always keep confidential data (hard copy and electronic) only as long as it is needed.   
• Follow a “clean desk” policy, keepin g workspaces uncluttered and securi ng sensitive documents so that 
confidential information does not get into the wrong hands.  
• Always use only approved document disposal services or shred all hardcopy documents containing confidential information when finished using them. Similarly, use only approved methods that fully remove 
all data when disposing of, sending out for repair or preparing to reuse electronic media. 
 
5. Provide security training for employees 
 
Security awareness training teaches employees to u nderstand system vulnerabilities and threats to business 
operations that are present when using a computer on a business network. 
 
A strong IT security program must include training IT users on security policy, procedures and techniques, as well 
as the various management, operational and technical contro ls necessary and available to keep IT resources secure. 
In addition, IT infrastructure managers must have the skills necessary to carry  out their assigned duties effectively. 
Failure to give attention to the area of security training puts an enterprise at great risk because security of business resources is as much a human issue as it is a technology issue. 
 
Technology users are the largest audience in any organization and are the single most important group of people 
who can help to reduce unintentional errors and IT vu lnerabilities. Users may include  employees, contractors, 
foreign or domestic guest researchers, other personnel, visi tors, guests and other collaborators or associates requiring 
access. Users must:   
• Understand and comply with security policies and procedures. 
• Be appropriately trained in the rules of behavior for the systems and applications to which they have 
access.  
• Work with management to meet training needs.  
• Keep software and applications updated with security patches.  
• Be aware of actions they can take to better protect  company information. These actions include: proper 
password usage, data backup, proper antivirus protection, reporting any suspected incidents or violations of  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 EMP-3security policy, and following rules established to avoi d social engineering attacks and deter the spread of 
spam or viruses and worms.  
 
A clear categorization of what is considered sensitive data versus non-sensitive data is also needed.  Typically, the following data are considered sensitive information that should be handled with precaution: 
 
• Government issued identification numbers (e.g., Soci al Security numbers, driver’s license numbers) 
• Financial account information (bank account numbers, credit card numbers) 
• Medical records 
• Health insurance information 
• Salary information 
• Passwords 
 The training should cover security policies for all mean s of access and transmission methods, including secure 
databases, email, file tr ansfer, encrypted electronic media and hard copies.   
 Employers should constantly emphasize the critical nature of  data security.  Regularly scheduled refresher training 
courses should be established in order to instill the data security culture of your organization.  Additionally, distribute data privacy and security related news articles in your training, and send organization-wide 
communication on notable data privacy related news as reminders to your employees.  
6. Implement Employee Departure Checklist  
 
Create a security checkout checklist for em ployees that are no longer with your company, regardless of their reason 
for leaving (voluntary or involuntary). It’s recommended by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and others that all 
small businesses ensure terminated employee accounts are er ased on all network devices and drives immediately. 
This is especially true for any devices that may have been taken offsite such as laptops and smartphones.  
 
Helpful links 
 
• Stop.Think.Connect. Internal Employee Rollout Materials 
http://www.dhs.gov/stopthinkconnect 
• Internet Safety at Work PowerPoint Presentation http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9745638
 
• Tip Cards: Top Tips for Internet Safety at Work 
• http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9745642  
• Video: "Stay Sharp on Internet Safety at Work" http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9745640
 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce: Internet Security Essentials for Business 2.0 
https://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/technology/files/ISEB-2.0-CyberSecurityGuide.pdf  
 
 
   
 Facility Security  
 
 
 
Protecting employees and members of the public who visit your facility is a complex and challenging responsibility. 
It’s also one of your company’s top priorities.   
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Recognize the importance of securing your company facilities  
 
The physical security of a facility depends on a number of security decisions that can be identified through a 
comprehensive risk-management process. The objective of risk management  is to identify an achievable level of 
protection for your company that corresponds as closely as possible to the level of risk without exceeding the risk.    
It is easy to think about physical security of your company’ s facility as merely an exercise in maintaining control of 
access points and ensuring there is complete visibility in areas that are determined  to be of high-risk – either because 
of the threat of easy public access or because of the value of information located nearby. However, maintaining 
security of your company’s facility also includes the physical environm ent of public spaces. For instance: 
 
• Employees whose computers have access to sensitive info rmation should not have their computer monitors 
oriented toward publicly accessibl e spaces such as reception areas, check-in desks and waiting rooms. 
Employees should be trained to not write out logins  and passwords on small pi eces of paper affixed to 
computer equipment viewable in public spaces. 
• Easy-to-grab equipment that could contain sensitive or personally identifiable information – such as 
laptops, electronic tablets and cell phones – should be located away from public areas.  If you have an 
environment where employees are working in a waiting room or reception area, train them to not leave 
these types of devices out on their desks unsecured.  
• Consider using cable locks as an easy way to increase security for laptop computers. Most laptops feature a 
lock port for a cable which can be conn ected to the user’s desk. Be sure to store the key to the cable lock in 
a secure location away from the de sk the computer is locked to. 
• In cases that extremely sensitive information is stor ed on a laptop, consider adding a LoJack software 
system. The software runs unnoticed and allows law enforcement to locate stolen computers more easily 
and also allows an administrator to wipe  the hard drive remotely if necessary. 
• Consider implementing a badge identification system for all employees, and train employees to stop and 
question anyone in the operational business area w ithout a badge or who appears to be an unescorted 
visitor. 
 
2. Minimize and safeguard printed ma terials with sensitive information 
 Probably the most effective way to minimize the risk of losing control of sensitive information from printed 
materials is to minimize the amount of printed materials th at contain sensitive informatio n.  Management procedures 
should limit how many instances and copies of printed reports memoranda and other material containing personally 
identifiable information exist.   
 Safeguard copies of material containing sensitive informati on by providing employees with locking file cabinets or 
safes. Make it a standard operating procedure to lock up important information. Train employees to understand that 
simply leaving the wrong printed material on a desk, in view of the general public, can result in consequences that 
impact the entire company and your customers. 
 
3. Ensure mail security 
 
  FS-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 FC-2Your mail center can introduce a wide range of potential threats to your business. Yo ur center’s screening and 
handling processes must be able to identify threats and hoaxes and eliminate or mitigate the risk they pose to 
facilities, employees and daily operations. Your company shou ld ensure that mail managers understand the range of 
screening procedures and evaluate them in terms of your specific operational requirements.   
4. Dispose of trash securely  
 
Too often, sensitive information – including customers’ personally identifiable information, business financial and 
other data, and company system access information – is availabl e for anyone to find in the trash.  Invest in business-
grade shredders and buy enough of them to make it convenient for employees. Alternatively, subscribe to a trusted 
shredding company that will provide locked containers fo r storage until documents are shredded.  Develop standard 
procedures and employee training progra ms to ensure that everyone in your company is aware of what types of 
information need to be shredded.  
5. Dispose electronic equipment securely 
 Be aware that emptying the recycle bin on your desktop or deleting documents from folders on your computer or other electronic device may not  delete information forever. Those with  advanced computer skills can still access 
your information even after you think you’ve destroyed it.    Disposing of electronic equipment requires skilled specialists in order to ensure the security of sensitive information 
contained within that equipment.  If outside help, such as an experienced electronic equipment recycler and data 
security vendor, is not available or too expensive, you should at a minimum remove computer hard drives and have them shredded.  Also, be mindful of risks with other types of equipment associated with computer equipment, 
including CDs and thumb drives. 
6. Train your employees in facility security procedures 
A security breach of customer information or a breach of internal company information can result in a public loss of 
confidence in your company and can be as devastating for yo ur business as a natural disaster.  In order to address 
such risks, you must devote your time, attention and resources (including employee training time) to the potential 
vulnerabilities in your business environment and the procedures  and practices that must be a standard part of each 
employee’s workday.  And while formal training is important to maintaining secur ity, the daily procedures you establish in both the normal 
conduct of business and in the way you model good security behaviors and practices are equally important. In short, security training should be stressed as critical and re inforced via daily procedures and leadership modeling.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 Operational Security  
 
 
 
While operational security, or OPSEC, has its origins in securing information important to military operations, it has applications across the business community today. 
 In a commercial context, OPSEC is th e process of denying hackers access to  any information about the capabilities 
or intentions of a business by identifying, controlling and protecting evidence of the planning and execution of 
activities that are essential the success of operations. 
 OPSEC is a continuous process that consists of five distinct actions: 
  
• Identify information that is critical to your business.  
• Analyze the threat to th at critical information. 
• Analyze the vulnerabilities to your business that would allow a cyber crim inal to access critical 
information. 
• Assess the risk to your business if the vulnerabilities are exploited.  
• Apply countermeasures to mitigate the risk factors.  
 In addition to being a five-step process, OPSEC is also a mindset that all business employees should embrace. By 
educating oneself on OPSEC ri sks and methodologies, protec ting sensitive information that is critical to the success 
of your business becomes second nature. 
 This section explains the OPSEC process and provides so me general guidelines that are applicable to most 
businesses. An understanding of the following terms is required before the process can be explained: 
 
• Critical information  – Specific data about your business strategies and operations that are needed by cyber 
criminals to hamper or harm your business from successfully operating. 
• OPSEC indicators  – Business operations and publicly available information that can be interpreted or 
pieced together by a cyber criminal  to derive critical information. 
• OPSEC vulnerability  – A condition in which business operations provide OPSEC indicators that may be 
obtained and accurately evaluated by a cyber criminal to provide a basis for hampering or harming 
successful business operations. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 1. Identity of critical information   
 
The identification of critical information is important in that it focuses the remainder of the OPSEC process on 
protecting vital information rather than attempting to protect all information relevant to business operations. Given 
that any business has limited time, personnel and money for developing secure business practices, it is essential to 
focus those limited resources on protecting information th at is most critical to successful business operations. 
Examples of critical information include, but should not be limited to, the following: 
 
• Customer lists and contact information  
• Contracts 
• Patents and intellectual property 
• Leases and deeds 
• Policy manuals 
• Articles of incorporation 
• Corporate papers 
• Laboratory notebooks 
 
 OS-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 OS-2• Audio tapes 
• Video tapes 
• Photographs and slides 
• Strategic plans and board meeting minutes 
 
Importantly, what is critical information for one business may not be critical for another business. Use your company’s mission as a guide for determining what data are truly vital. 
 
2. Analyze threats   
 
This action involves research and analysis to identify likely cyber criminals who may attempt to obtain critical 
information regarding your company’s operations. OPSEC planners in your business should answer the following 
critical information questions: 
 
• Who might be a cyber criminal (e.g. competitors, politically motivated hackers, etc.)? 
• What are the cyber criminal’s goals? 
• What actions might the cyber criminal take? 
• What critical information does the cyber criminal alread y have on your company’s operations? (i.e., what is 
already publicly available?) 
 
3. Analyze vulnerabilities   
 
The purpose of this action is to identify the vulnerabilities of your business in protecting critical information. It 
requires examining each aspect of secur ity that seeks to protect your critical information and then comparing those 
indicators with the threats identified in the previous step. Common vulnerabilities for small businesses include the 
following: 
 
• Poorly secured mobile devices that have access to critical information. 
• Lack of policy on what information and networked equipment can be taken home from work or taken abroad on travel. 
• Storage of critical information on personal email accounts or other non-company networks. 
• Lack of policy on what business information can be  posted to or accessed by social network sites. 
 
4. Assess risk 
 
This action has two components. First, OPSEC managers mu st analyze the vulnerabilities identified in the previous 
action and identify possible OPSEC measures to mitigate each one. Second, specific OPSEC measures must be 
selected for execution based upon a risk assessment done by your company’s senior leadership. Risk assessment 
requires comparing the estimated cost associated with implementing each possible OPSEC measure to the potential 
harmful effects on business operations resulting from  the exploitation of a particular vulnerability.  
 
OPSEC measures may entail some cost in time, resources, personnel or interference with normal operations. If the 
cost to achieve OPSEC protection exceeds the cost of the harm that an intruder could inflict, then the application of 
the measure is inappropriate. Because the decision not to implement a particul ar OPSEC measure entails risks, this 
step requires your compan y’s leadership approval. 
 
5. Apply appropriate OPSEC measures  
 
In this action, your company’s leader ship reviews and implements the OPSEC measures selected in the assessment 
of risk action. Before OPSEC measures can be selected, security objectives an d critical information must be known, 
indicators identified and vulnerabilities assessed. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 OS-3Helpful links 
 
These resources provide additional inform ation on the origins, purpose and implementation of operational security. 
 
• National Security Agency/Central Security Service, PURPLE DRAGON: The Origin and Development of the 
United States OPSEC Program  (1993): 
http://www.nsa.gov/public_info/_files/cryp tologic_quarterly/purple_dragon.pdf  
• Joint Publication 3-13.3, Operations Security  (29 June 2006): Available through Joint Doctrine Education and 
Training Electronic Inform ation System (JDEIS). 
https://jfsc.ndu.edu/schools_programs/jc2ios/io/student_readings/1C2_JP_3-13-3_OPSEC_Process.pdf   
• National OPSEC Program: https://www.iad.gov/ioss/  
• OPSEC Professionals Society: http://opsecsociety.org/  
• Operations Security Professional’s Association: http://www.opsecprofessionals.org/  
• Department of Homeland Security Critical Infrastructure  Protection: http://www.dhs.gov/criticalinfrastructure 
 
 Payment Cards  
 
 
 
If your business accepts payment by credit or debit cards, it is important to have security steps in place to ensure 
your customer information is safe. You also may have secur ity obligations pursuant to agreements with your bank or 
payment services processor.  These entities can help you prevent fraud. In addition, free resources and general 
security tips are available to learn how to keep sensitive information – beyond payment information – safe. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 1. Understand and catalog customer and card data you keep 
 
• Make a list of the type of customer and card information you collect and keep – names, addresses, identification 
information, payment card numbers, magnetic stripe data, bank account details and Social Security numbers. 
It’s not only card numbers criminals want; they’re looking for all types of personal in formation, especially if it 
helps them commit identity fraud. 
• Understand where you keep such information and how it is protected. 
• Determine who has access to this data and if they need to have access. 
 
2. Evaluate whether you need to  keep all the data you store 
 
• Once you know what information you collect and store, evaluate whether you really need to keep it. Often 
businesses may not realize they’re logging or otherwise keeping unnecessary data until they conduct an audit. 
Not keeping sensitive data in storage makes it harder for criminals to steal it. 
• If you’ve been using card numbers for purposes other than payment transactions, such as a customer loyalty 
program, ask your merchant processor if you can use alternative data instead. Tokenization, for example, is 
technology that masks card numbers and replaces it with an alternate num ber that can’t be used for fraud. 
 
3. Use secure tools and services 
 
• The payments industry maintains lists of hardware, so ftware and service providers who have been validated 
against industry security requirements. 
• Small businesses that use integrated payment systems,  in which the card terminal is connected to a larger 
computer system, can check the list of validated payment applications to make sure any software they employ 
has been tested. 
• Have a conversation about security with your provider if the products or services you are currently using are not 
on the lists. 
 
4. Control access to payment systems 
 • Whether you use a more complicated payment system or a simple standalone terminal, make sure you carefully 
control access. 
• Isolate payment systems from other, less secure progra ms, especially those connect ed to the Internet. For 
example, don’t use the same computer to process payments and surf the Internet. 
• Control or limit access to payment system s to only employees who need access. 
• Make sure you use a secure system for remote access or eliminate remote access if yo u don’t need it so that 
criminals cannot infiltrate your system from the Internet. 
 
  
 
  PC-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PC-25. Use security tools and resources 
 
Work with your bank or processor and ask about the anti-fraud measures, tools and services you can use to ensure 
criminals cannot use stolen card information at your business. 
 
• For e-commerce retailers:  
- The CVV2 code is the three-digit number on the signatur e panel that can help verify that the customer has 
physical possession of the card and not just the account number. 
- Retailers can also use Address Verifi cation Service to ensure the cardholder has provided the correct billing 
address associated with the account. 
- Services such as Verified by Visa prompt the cardholder to enter a personal password confirming their identity and providing an extra layer of protection. 
• For brick and mortar retailers:  - Swipe the card and get an electronic  authorization for the transaction. 
- Check that the signature matches the card. 
- Ensure your payment terminal is secure and safe from tampering. 
 
6. Remember the security basics 
 
• Use strong, unique passwords and change them frequently. 
• Use up-to-date firewall and anti-virus technologies. 
• Do not click on suspicious links you ma y receive by email or encounter online. 
 
Helpful links 
 
You don’t have to tackle security on your own. Work with your bank or processor to make sure you’re getting the 
support and expertise you need.  
• Visa offers a data security guide for small business as  part of its Cardholder Information Security Program: 
http://usa.visa.com/download/merchants/uscc-cyber-security-guide-2012.pdf
 
• Information about industry secu
rity standards is available from the PCI Security Standards Council: 
https://www.pcisecur itystandards.org  
• The Paysimple.com blog offers a helpful post on credit card security: http://paysimple.com/blog/2011/09/01/5-
tips-for-proper-handling-of-customer-credit-card-account-information/ 
• American Express provides data security advice for merchants: 
https://www260.americanexpress.com/merchant/singlev oice/dsw/FrontServlet?request_type=dsw&pg_nm=mer
chinfo&ln=en&frm=US  
• MasterCard offers resources for on safeguarding customer information. : 
http://www.mastercard.com/us/business/en/smallbiz/resources/industry/e-
commerce/articles/0802CustomerData.html 
 
 Incident Response  
 
 
 
Even well-implemented cyber security structures and pl ans may not prevent all breaches of your business’ data 
defenses, so be sure to have procedures in place to  respond to security bre aches when they occur. 
 
Types of breaches  
 
Physical breaches  include real-world crimes such as burglaries and equipment theft, as well as any event when your 
company’s equipment is misplaced or lost  in transit. Unauthorized devices may be installed on a sy stem or network, 
permitting further compromises of data confidentiality and integrity. Physical breaches can also result from 
reselling, donating or recycling old equipment that has not been properly cleansed of potentially sensitive 
information. 
 
Network and system security breaches  include events when computers become  infected with malicious code, are 
accessed by unauthorized individuals remo tely or are used by authorized indi viduals to perform malicious activity. 
This can also include breaches to network routers and firewalls, both within and outside your organization’s 
boundary and control. 
 
Data breaches, meaning the leakage or spillage of sensitive information into insecure channels, can result from any 
of the types of events described above. Data breaches ca n also occur if sensitive information is left improperly 
exposed by mistake. 
 
 
Cyber Plan Action Item s, if Breach Occurs:  
 
1. Notify law enforcement if necessary 
 
Depending on the type of breach and type of business, your company may be required to notify local law 
enforcement or other government authorities upon discovery of a data breach. In the event of exposure of customer 
information, you should notify the customer(s) of the incident, record the data that was lost or exposed and record 
the measures taken to ensure against future exposure. 
 
2. Work cohesively across technical an d leadership teams to limit the damage  
 Once your company becomes aw are that a breach has occurred, technical personnel and business decision makers 
should work together to decide on the most practical and effective containment plan. Containment plans will vary 
from one set of circumstances to the next, and they may quickly become intensive in terms of time and resources 
from both the technological and business impact perspectives. In any case, the containment of data breaches should 
be focused on determining the extent of the compromise and preserving the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive 
data that has not yet been stolen or disclosed. 
 Other issues affecting the selection and execution of a containment plan include your company’s reputation-risk 
management strategy and the decision on whether to request outside assistance – either from local or federal law 
enforcement, a private consulting firm or a computer incident response organization such as US-CERT.  
3. Begin recovery effort 
 After a containment plan has been established and execution has begun, get started on eradication and recovery 
efforts. In the case of network and system security br eaches, eradication usually mean s removing all instances of 
unauthorized software from the netw ork and disabling all access privileges associated with users who have 
committed malicious activity.  
  IR-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 IR-2 
Cleaning a network or system of all traces of malicious code  can often entail having to completely wipe all storage 
media and perform a “clean install.” Ther efore, recovery from such a breach may be resource intensive and require 
careful restoration of data from backups. Bear in mind that backups may also contain malicious code and should be carefully checked for compromise; othe rwise, the security breach will be pe rpetuated after the recovery phase. 
 
Key Disaster Recovery Principles 
 
• Don’t wait until it’s too late  – Small businesses should not wait until after a disaster to think about what should 
have been done to protect their data.  Not only is downtime costly from a financial perspective, but it could 
mean the complete demise of the business. Small businesses should map out disaster preparedness plans ahead of time, including the identification of key systems, data and other resources that are critical to running the 
business.  
 
• Protect information completely – To reduce the risk of losing critical business information, small businesses 
must implement the appropriate security and backup solu tions to archive important files, such as customer 
records and financial information for the long term. Natu ral disasters, theft and cybe r attacks can all result in 
data and financial loss, so small businesses need to make sure important files are saved not only on an external 
hard drive and/or company network, but in a safe, off-site location.  
 
• Get employees involved  – Employees play a key role in helping to prevent downtime. They should be educated 
on computer security best practices and what to do if information is acci dentally deleted or cannot easily be 
found in their files. Since small businesses often have limited resources, all employees should know how to 
retrieve the businesses’ information in times of disaster.  
 
• Test frequently  – After a disaster hits is the worst time to learn th at critical files were not backed up as planned.  
Regular disaster recovery testing is invaluable. Test your plan anytime anything changes in your environment.  
 
• Review your plan  – If frequent testing is not feasible due to re sources and bandwidth, small businesses should at 
least review disaster preparedness plan on a quarterly basis. 
 
• Be prepared  – It is always better and less costly to invest in adequate security up-front rather than going 
through a costly incident response which could result in rebuilding your entire network infrastructure. 
 
4. Hold a ‘lessons learned’ meeting  
 
Lastly, your company should always perform a “lessons  learned” meeting after the recovery phase has been 
successfully completed to discover, document and refine th e knowledge gained during the incident handling process.  
 Policy Development and Management  
 
 
 
All companies should develop and maintain clear and robust policies for safeguarding critical business data and sensitive information, protecting their reputation and discouraging inappropriate behavior by employees.  
 
Many of these types of policies already exist for “real wo rld” situations, but may need to be tailored to your 
organization and updated to reflect the in creasing impact of cyberspace on ever yday transactions, both professional 
and personal. As with any other business document, cyber security policies should follow good design and 
governance practices -- not so long that  they become unusable, not so vague that they become meaningless, and 
reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that they  stay pertinent as your business needs change.  
 Please note that this document does not address all policy requirements for businesses that fall under legislative acts 
or directives, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Sarbanes-O xley Act or other federal, 
state or local statutes. 
 
Cyber Plan Action Items:  
 
1. Establish security roles and responsibilities  
 One of the most effective and least expensive means of prev enting serious cyber security incidents is to establish a 
policy that clearly defines the separation of roles and re sponsibilities with regard to systems and the information 
they contain. Many systems ar e designed to provide for strong Role-Based  Access Control (RBAC), but this tool is 
of little use without well-defined procedures and policies to govern the assignment of roles and their associated 
constraints. Such policies need to  clearly state, at a minimum: 
 
• Clearly identify company data ownership and employee role s for security oversight and their inherit privileges, 
including: 
o Necessary roles, and the privileges and constraints accorded to those roles. 
o The types of employees who should be allowed to assume the various roles. 
o How long an employee may hold a role before access rights must be reviewed. 
o If employees may hold multiple roles, the circumstances defining when to adopt one role over another. 
 
Depending on the types of data regularly handled by your business, it may also make sense to create separate 
policies governing who is responsible for certain types of data. For example, a business that handles large volumes 
of personally identifiable information (PII) from its cust omers may benefit from identifying a chief steward for 
customers’ privacy information. The st eward could serve not only as a subject matter expert on all matters of 
privacy, but also to serve as the champion for process and technical improvements to PII handling. 
 
2. Establish an employee Internet usage policy  
 The limits on employee Internet usage in the workplace vary wide ly from business to busi ness. Your guidelines 
should allow employees the maximum degree of freedom they require to be productive (short breaks to surf the web 
or perform personal tasks online have been shown to increase productivity). At the same time, rules of behavior are necessary to ensure that all employees are aware of boundaries, both to keep them safe and to keep your company 
successful. Some to consider: 
 
• Personal breaks to surf the web should be limited to a reasonable amount of time and to certain types of 
activities. 
• If you use a web filtering system, employees should have clear knowledge of how and why their web activities 
will be monitored, and what types of sites are deemed unacceptable by your policy. 
• Workplace rules of behavior should be  clear, concise and easy to follow. Employees should feel comfortable 
performing both personal and professional tasks online without making judgment calls as to what may or may 
 
 PDM-1 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDM-2not be deemed appropriate. Businesses may want to include a splash warning upon network sign-on that advises 
the employees of the businesses’ Internet usage policies so that all employees are on notice. 
 
3. Establish a social media policy  
 Social networking applications present a number of risks that are difficult to address using technical or procedural 
solutions. A strong social media policy is crucial for any business that seeks to use social networking to promote its 
activities and communicate with its customers. At a minimum, a social media policy should clearly include the 
following:  
• Specific guidance on when to disclose company activities using social media, and what kinds of details can be 
discussed in a public forum. 
• Additional rules of behavior for employees using personal social networking accounts to make clear what kinds of discussion topics or posts could cause risk for the company. 
• Guidance on the acceptability of using a company email address to register for, or get notices from, social 
media sites. 
• Guidance on selecting long and strong passwords for so cial networking accounts, si nce very few social media 
sites enforce strong authen tication policies for users. 
 Lastly, all users of social media need to be aware of the risks associated with social networking tools and the types 
of data that can be automatically disclosed online when  using social media. Taking the time to educate your 
employees on the potential pitfalls of social media use, es pecially in tandem with geo-location services, may be the 
most beneficial social networ king security practice of all. 
 
4. Identify potential reputation risks  
 All organizations should take the time to identify potential risks to their reputation and de velop a strategy to mitigate 
those risks via policies or other measures as available. Specific types of reputation risks include: 
 
• Being impersonated online by a criminal organization (e.g., an illegitimate website spoofing your business 
name and copying your site design, then attempting to defraud potential customers via phishing scams or other 
method). 
• Having sensitive company or customer information leaked to the public via the web. 
• Having sensitive or inappropriate employee actions made public via the web or social media sites. 
 
All businesses should set a policy for managing these types of risks and plans to address such incidents if and when 
they occur. Such a policy should cover a regular process for identifying potential risks to the company’s reputation 
in cyberspace, practical measures to prevent those risks from materializing and reference plans to respond and 
recover from potential incidents as soon as they occur. 
 
Helpful links 
 
• US-CERT’s Protect Your Wo rkplace Posters & Brochure: 
http://www.us-cert.gov/reading _room/distributable.html
 
• Socializing Securely: Using So cial Networking Services: 
http://www.us-cert.gov/r eading_room/safe_social_networking.pdf  
• Governing for Enterprise Security: 
http://www.cert.org/governance/  
• FFIEC Handbook Definition of Reputation Risk: http://ithandbook.ffiec.gov/it-bookle ts/retail-payment-systems/retail-payment-systems-risk-
management/reputation-risk.aspx   
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CY BER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 PDM-3• What Businesses can do to help with cyber security;
http://staysafeonline.org/business-safe-online
 
 
  
 CSG-1 
 
Adware 
Any software application that displays advertising banners while the program is running. 
Adware often includes code that tracks a user ’s personal information and passes it on to 
third parties without the user’s authorization or knowledge. And if you gather enough of 
it, adware slows down your computer significantly. Over time, performance can be so degraded that you may have troub le working productively. See also Spyware  and 
Malware .  
 
Anti-Virus Software 
Software designed to detect and potentially eliminate viruses before they have had a 
chance to wreak havoc within the system. Anti-virus software can  also repair or 
quarantine files that have already been  infected by virus activity. See also Virus  and 
Electronic Infections . 
 Application 
Software that performs automated functions for a user, such as word processing, 
spreadsheets, graphics, presentations and databases—as opposed to operating system 
(OS) software. 
 
Attachment 
A file that has been added to an email—often an image or document. It could be 
something useful to you or something harmful to your computer. See also Virus . 
 
Authentication 
Confirming the correctness of the claimed id entity of an indivi dual user, machine, 
software component or any other entity.   
 Authorization 
The approval, permission or empowerment for someone or something to do something. 
 Backdoor 
Hidden software or hardware mechanism used to circumvent security controls. 
 Backup 
File copies that are saved as protection ag ainst loss, damage or unavailability of the 
primary data. Saving methods include high-capaci ty tape, separate disk sub-systems or on 
the Internet. Off-site backup storage is ideal,  sufficiently far away to reduce the risk of 
environmental damage such as flood, which might destroy both the primary and the 
backup if kept nearby. 
 
Badware 
See Malware , Adware  and Spyware . 
 Cyber Security Glossary 
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-2 Bandwidth 
The capacity of a communication channel to pa ss data such as text, images, video or 
sound through the channel in a given amount of time. Usually expressed in bits per 
second. 
 
Blacklisting Software 
A form of filtering that blocks only websites specified as harmful. Parents and employers 
sometimes use such software to prevent ch ildren and employees from visiting certain 
websites. You can add and remove sites from the “not permitted” list. This method of 
filtering allows for more full use of the Intern et, but is less efficient at preventing access 
to any harmful material that is not on the list. See also Whitelisting Software . 
 
Blended Threat 
A computer network attack that seeks to ma ximize the severity of damage and speed of 
contagion by combining methods—for example,  using characteristics of both viruses and 
worms. See also Electronic Infection . 
 Blog 
Short for “Web log,” a blog is usually defined as  an online diary or journal. It is usually 
updated frequently and offered in a dated log fo rmat with the most recent entry at the top 
of the page. It often contains links to other websites along with commentary about those 
sites or specific subjects, such as politics, news, pop culture or computers. 
 Broadband 
General term used to refer to high-speed ne twork connections such as cable modem and 
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL). These type s of “always on” Internet connections are 
actually more susceptible to some security th reats than computers th at access the Web via 
dial-up service. 
 Browser 
A client software program that can retrieve  and display information from servers on the 
World Wide Web. Often known as a “Web brow ser” or “Internet browser,” Examples 
include Microsoft’s Internet Explorer, Google’s Chrome, Ap ple’s Safari, and Mozilla’s 
Firefox. 
 Brute Force Attack 
An exhaustive password-cracking procedure th at tries all possibilities, one by one. See 
also Dictionary Attack  and Hybrid Attack . 
 Clear Desk Policy 
A policy that directs all personne l to clear their desks at the end of each working day, and 
file everything appropriately. Desks should be cleared of all documents and papers, 
including the contents of the “in” and “out” trays —not simply for cleanliness, but also to 
ensure that sensitive papers and documents  are not exposed to unauthorized persons 
outside of working hours. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-3 Clear Screen Policy 
A policy that directs all computer users to en sure that the contents of the screen are 
protected from prying eyes a nd opportunistic breaches of confidentially. Typically, the 
easiest means of compliance is to use a screen  saver that engages either on request or 
after a specified short period of time. See also Shoulder Surfing. 
 
Cookie 
A small file that is downloaded by some webs ites to store a packet of information on your 
browser. Companies and organizations us e cookies to remember your login or 
registration identification, site preferences , pages viewed and online “shopping-cart” so 
that the next time you visit a site, your stor ed information can automatically be pulled up 
for you. A cookie is obviously convenient but also presents potential security issues. You 
can configure your browser to alert you whenev er a cookie is being sent. You can refuse 
to accept all cookies or erase all cookies saved on your browser. 
 Credit Card 
A card indicating the holder ha s been granted a line of credit. Often sought after by 
criminals looking for an easy way to purchase things without having to pay for them. For 
this reason and others, a credit card prefer able to a debit card fo r online shopping since it 
provides a buffer between buyer and seller, affording more protections to the buyer in 
case there is a problem with the order or the card number is compromised. See also Debit 
Card . 
 
Cyberbullying 
Sending or posting harmful, cruel, rude or threatening messages, or slanderous 
information, text or images using the Intern et or other digital communication devices. 
 Debit Card 
A card linked directly to the holder’s ba nk account, withdrawi ng money from the 
account. Not as safe as credit cards for on line shopping since if problems arise, the 
buyer’s money has already been spent and is harder to get back. See also Credit Card . 
 Denial of Service Attack 
The prevention of authorized access to a sy stem resource or the delaying of system 
operations and functions. Often this involves a cyber criminal generating a large volume 
of data requests. See also Flooding . 
 Dictionary Attack 
A password-cracking attack that tries all of th e phrases or words in a dictionary. See also 
Brute Force Attack  and Hybrid Attack . 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-4 Digital Certificate 
The electronic equivalent of an ID card that establishes your credentials when doing 
business or other transactions on the Web. It contains your name, a serial number, 
expiration dates, a copy of the certificate holder’s public key (used for encrypting 
messages and digital signatures) and the di gital signature of the certificate-issuing 
authority so that a recipient can ve rify that the certificate is real. 
 
Domain Hijacking 
An attack in which an attacker takes over a domain by first blocking access to the 
domain’s DNS server and then putti ng his own server up in its place. 
 Domain Name System (DNS) 
The DNS is the way that Internet domain na mes are located. A website’s domain name is 
easier to remember than its IP (Internet Protocol) address. 
 Dumpster Diving 
Recovering files, letters, memos, photogr aphs, IDs, passwords, checks, account 
statements, credit card offers and more from garbage cans and recycling bins. This 
information can then be used to commit identity theft. 
 Electronic Infections 
Often called “viruses,” these malicious pr ograms and codes harm your computer and 
compromise your privacy. In addition to th e traditional viruses, other common types 
include worms and Trojan horses. They sometimes work in tandem to do maximum 
damage. See also Blended Threat. 
 
Encryption 
A data security technique used to protect information from unauthorized inspection or 
alteration. Information is encoded so that it a ppears as a meaningless string of letters and 
symbols during delivery or transmission. Upon receipt, the in formation is decoded using 
an encryption key. 
 
End User License Agreement (EULA) 
A contract between you and your software’s vendor or deve loper. Many times, the EULA 
is presented as a dialog box that appears th e first time you open the software and forces 
you to check “I accept” before you can proceed. Before accepting, though, read through it 
and make sure you understand and are comfortable with the terms of th e agreement. If the 
software’s EULA is hard to understand or you can’t find it, beware! 
 
Evil Twins 
A fake wireless Internet hot spot that looks like a legitim ate service. When victims 
connect to the wireless network, a hacker can launch a spying attack on their transactions 
on the Internet, or just ask fo r credit card information in th e standard pay-for-access deal. 
See also Man-in-the-Middle Attacks .  
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-5 File-Sharing Programs 
Sometimes called peer-to-peer (P2P) programs, these allow many different users to 
access the same file at the same time. These programs are often used to illegally upload 
and download music and other software. Exam ples include Napster, Grokster, Kazaa, 
iMesh, Ares and Limewire. 
 
Firewall 
A hardware or software link in a network th at inspects all data packets coming and going 
from a computer, permitting only those that are authorized to reach the other side. 
 Flooding 
An attack that attempts to cause a failure in  the security of a computer by providing more 
input, such as a large volume of data request s, than it can properly process. See also 
Denial of Service Attack . 
 Grooming 
Using the Internet to manipulate and gain trust of a minor as a first step towards the 
future sexual abuse, production or expos ure of that minor. Sometimes involves 
developing the child’s sexual aw areness and may take days, weeks, months or in some 
cases years to manipulate the minor. 
 
Hacker 
An individual who attempts to break into a computer without authorization. 
 HTTPS 
When used in the first part of  a URL (e.g., http://), this term  specifies the use of hypertext 
transfer protocol (HTTP) enhanced by a secur ity mechanism such as Secure Socket Layer 
(SSL). Always look for the HTTP S on the checkout or order form page when shopping 
online or when logging into a site an d providing your username and password. 
 Hybrid Attack 
Builds on other password-cracking attacks by ad ding numerals and symbols to dictionary 
words. See also Dictionary Attack  and Brute Force Attack . 
 Instant Messaging (IM) 
A service that allows people to send and get messages almost instantly. To send messages 
using instant messaging you need to downloa d an instant messaging program and know 
the instant messaging address of another person  who uses the same IM program. See also 
Spim .  
 IP (Internet Protocol) Address 
A computer’s inter-network address, written as a series of four 8- bit numbers separated 
by periods, such as 123.45.678.990. Every website has an IP Address, although finding a 
website is considerably easier to do when  using its domain name instead. See also 
Domain Name System (DNS) . 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-6 Internet Service Provider (ISP) 
A company that provides inte rnet access to customers. 
 
Keystroke Logger 
A specific type of electronic infection that records victims’ keystrokes and sends them to 
an attacker. This can be done with ei ther hardware or software. See also Trojan Horse . 
 Malware 
A generic term for a number of differen t types of malicious code. See also Adware  and 
Spyware . 
 Man-In-the-Middle Attack 
Posing as an online bank or merchant, a cyber criminal allows a victim to sign in over a 
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) conn ection. The attacker then logs  onto the real server using 
the client’s information and steals credit card numbers. 
 Monitoring Software 
Software products that allow parents to mon itor or track the websites or email messages 
that a child visits or reads. See also Blacklisting Software  and Whitelisting Software. 
 Network 
Two or more computer systems that are group ed together to share information, software 
and hardware. 
 Operating System (OS) 
Programs that manage all the basic functions and programs on a computer, such as 
allocating system resources, providing access and security controls, maintaining file 
systems and managing communications betw een end users and hardware devices. 
Examples include Microsoft’s Windows,  Apple’s Macintosh and Red Hat’s Linux. 
 
Password 
A secret sequence of characters that is used as a means of authentic ation to confirm your 
identity in a computer program or online. 
 Password Cracking 
Password cracking is the process of attempting to guess passwords, given the password 
file information. See also Brute Force Attacks , Dictionary Attacks  and Hybrid 
Attacks .  
 
Password Sniffing 
Passive wiretapping, usually on a local area network, to gain knowledge of passwords. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-7 Patch 
A patch is a small security update released by a software manufacturer to fix bugs in 
existing programs. Your computer’s software  programs and/or operating system may be 
configured to check automatically for patche s, or you may need to periodically visit the 
manufacturers’ websites to see if there have been any updates. 
 
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Programs 
See File-Sharing Programs. 
 Phishing 
Soliciting private information from customer s or members of a business, bank or other 
organization in an attempt to fool them into  divulging confidential personal and financial 
information. People are lured into sharing user names, passwords, account information or 
credit card numbers, usually by an offici al-looking message in an email or a pop-up 
advertisement that urges them to act imme diately, usually by clicking on a link provided. 
See also Vishing .  
 
Pharming 
Redirecting visitors from a real website to a bogus one. A user enters what is believed to 
be a valid Web address and is unknowingly redirected to an illegitimate site that steals 
the user's personal information. On the spoofed site, criminals may mimic real 
transactions and harvest private informati on unknowingly shared by users. With this, the 
attacker can then access the real website and conduct transactions us ing the credentials of 
a valid user. 
 
Router 
A hardware device that connects two or more networks and routes incoming data packets 
to the appropriate network. Many Internet Se rvice Providers (ISPs) provide these devices 
to their customers, and they of ten contain firewall protections. 
 Script 
A file containing active content -- for example, commands or instructions to be executed 
by the computer. 
 Shoulder Surfing 
Looking over a person’s shoulder to  get confidential information. It is an effective way to 
get information in crowded places because it’s  relatively easy to stand next to someone 
and watch as they fill out a form, enter a PIN number at an ATM machine or type a 
password. Can also be done long-distance with  the aid of binoculars or other vision-
enhancing devices. To combat it, experts recommend that you shield paperwork or your 
keypad from view by using your body or cupping your hand. Also, be sure you password-
protect your computer screen when you must  leave it unattended, and clear your desk at 
the end of the day. See also Clear Desk Policy  and Clear Screen Policy . 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-8 Skimming 
A high-tech method by which thieves capture your personal or account information from 
your credit card, driver’s licen se or even passport using an electronic device called a 
“skimmer.” Such devices can be purchased  online for under $50. Your  card is swiped 
through the skimmer and the information contai ned in the magnetic strip on the card is 
then read into and stored on the device or an attached computer. Skimming is 
predominantly a tactic used to perpetuate credit card fraud, but is also gaining in 
popularity amongst identity thieves. 
 
Social Engineering 
A euphemism for non-technical or low-tec hnology means—such as lies, impersonation, 
tricks, bribes, blackmail and threats—used to  attack information systems. Sometimes 
telemarketers or unethical employees employ such tactics. 
 Social Networking Websites 
Sites specifically focused on the building and verifying of social networks for whatever 
purpose. Many social networking services are also blog hosting services. There are more 
than 300 known social networking websites, including Facebook, MySpace, Friendster, 
Xanga and Blogspot. Such sites enable users to create online profiles and post pictures 
and share personal data such as their contac t information, hobbies, activities and interests. 
The sites facilitate connecti ng with other users with sim ilar interests, activities and 
locations. Sites vary in who may view a use r’s profile—some have settings which may be 
changed so that profiles can be viewed only by “friends.” See also Blogs . 
 
Spam 
Unwanted, unsolicited email from someone you don’t know. Often sent in an attempt to 
sell you something or get you to reveal personal information. 
 Spim 
Unwanted, unsolicited instant messages from  someone you don’t know. Often sent in an 
attempt to sell you something or get you to reveal personal information. 
 Spoofing 
Masquerading so that a trusted IP address is  used instead of the true IP address. A 
technique used by hackers as a means of  gaining access to a computer system. 
 Spyware 
Software that uses your Internet connection to send persona lly identifiable information 
about you to a collecting device on the Internet. It is often pa ckaged with software that 
you download voluntarily, so that even if you remove the downloaded program later, the 
spyware may remain. See also Adware  and Malware . 
 SSL (Secure Socket Layer) 
An encryption system that protects the priv acy of data exchanged by a website and the 
individual user. Used by websites whose URLs begin with http s instead of http. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-9 Trojan Horse 
A computer program that appear s to be beneficial or innocuous, but also has a hidden and 
potentially malicious function that evades security mechanisms. A “keystroke logger,” 
which records victims’ keystrokes and sends th em to an attacker, or remote-controlled 
“zombie computers” are examples of the damage that can be done by Trojan horses. See 
also Electronic Infection . 
 
URL 
Abbreviation for “Uniform (or Universal) Resource Locator.” A way of specifying the 
location of publicly available information on the Internet. Also known as a Web address. 
 
URL Obfuscation 
Taking advantage of human error, some scammers use phishing emails to guide 
recipients to fraudulent sites with names very  similar to established sites. They use a 
slight misspelling or other subtle difference in the URL, such as “monneybank.com” instead of “moneybank.com” to redirect us ers to share their personal information 
unknowingly. 
 
Virus 
A hidden, self-replicatin g section of computer software, usually malicious logic, that 
propagates by infecting—i.e., inserting a c opy of itself into and becoming part of -- 
another program. A virus cannot run by itself; it requires that  its host program be run to 
make the virus active. Often sent through email attachments. Also see Electronic 
Infection  and Blended Threat . 
 Vishing 
Soliciting private information from customer s or members of a business, bank or other 
organization in an attempt to fool them into  divulging confidential personal and financial 
information. People are lured into sharing user names, passwords, account information or 
credit card numbers, usually by an offici al-looking message in an email or a pop-up 
advertisement that urges them to act immediately—but in a vishing scam, they are urged to call the phone number provided rath er than clicking on a link. See also Phishing .  
 
Vulnerability 
A flaw that allows someone to operate a com puter system with authorization levels in 
excess of that which the system owner specifically granted. 
 Whitelisting Software 
A form of filtering that only allows connectio ns to a pre-approved list of sites that are 
considered useful and appropriate for childre n. Parents sometimes use such software to 
prevent children from visiting all but certa in websites. You can add and remove sites 
from the “permitted” list. This method is extremely safe, but allows for only extremely 
limited use of the Internet. 
  
 
FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE 
 
 CSG-10Worm 
Originally an acronym for “Write once, read many times,” a type of  electronic infection 
that can run independently, can  propagate a complete workin g version of itself onto other 
hosts on a network, and may consume comput er resources destructively. Once this 
malicious software is on a computer, it scan s the network for another machine with a 
specific security vulnerability. When it finds one, it exploits the weakness to copy itself 
to the new machine, and then the worm starts  replicating from there, as well. See also 
Electronic Infection  and Blended Threat . 
 
Zombie Computer 
A remote-access Trojan horse installs hidden code that allows your computer to be 
controlled remotely. Digital th ieves then use robot networks of thousands of zombie 
computers to carry out attacks on other people and cover up their track s. Authorities have 
a harder time tracing criminals when they go through zombie computers.  
 
 
Sources: 
 
National Institute of Standards and Technology: 
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ir/2013/NIST.IR.7298r2.pdf
   
CSL-1
 
Cyber Security and Privacy Protection  
 
  
• Center for Internet Security (CIS): 
www.cisecurity.org  
 
• Free online security check ups: 
http://www.staysafeonline.org/stay-safe-online/free-security-check-ups   
 
• National Cyber Security Alliance for Small Business Home Users: http://www.staysafeonline.org
  
 
• OnGuard Online: 
www.OnGuardOnline.gov    
 
• SANS (SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security) Institute ’s Most Critical Internet Security Vulnerabilities: 
www.sans.org/top20    
 
• Security Tips from Securing our eCity: http://securingourecity.org/
 
 
• Small Business Solutions form StopBadware: 
http://stopbadware.org/  
 
• The Open Web Applica tion Security Project: 
www.owasp.org     
 Cyber Security Threat Centers 
 
•    Cyber Safety Links for High School Students 
http://blackboard.aacps.org/portal/lor/obj/mods/4students/HSCybrSfty/addlinks.pdf   
 
• McAfee Security Solutions for Small Business: http://shop.mcafee.com/Default.aspx?site=us&pid=HOME&CID=MFE-MHP001
   
 
• Symantec Security Solutions for Small Business: http://store.symantec.com/?om_sem_cid=hho_sem_nam_us_Google_SMB_Store_Home&inid=hho_sem_s
y:us:ggl:en:e%7Ckw0000006084%7CSMB   Cyber Security Links  FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE
CSL-2Training and Exercises 
•Free training materials, security configurat ion guides from Internet Security Allian ce:
h
ttp://www.isalliance.org/
•Free DOD user training :
http://iase.disa.mil/eta/Pages/online-catalog.aspx
•NIH Free Online User Training (non DOD versio n):
h
ttp://irtsectraining.nih.gov/publicUser.aspx
Government Resources 
•Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s National Strategy to Secure Cybers pace:
http://www.dhs.gov/national-strategy-secure-cyberspace
•DHS testimony before the House on Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity ,
In
frastructure Protection, and Security Technol ogies:
h
ttp://www.dhs.gov/ynews/testim ony/testimony_1300283858976.shtm
•FCC Cyber Security Encyclopedia Page
http://www.fcc. gov/cyberforsmallbiz
•FCC Public Safety and Homeland Secuirity Bureau Clearing house:
http://publicsafety.fcc.go v/pshs/clearinghouse/index.htm
•FCC Public Safety and Homelan d Secu rity Bureau Guidelines for Emergency Planning: http://
transition.fcc.gov/pshs/emergen cy-information /guidelines/
•FCC Ten Cybersecurity Tips for Small Businesses
http://hrau nfoss. fcc.go v/edocs_public/attachmatch/DOC-306595A1.p df
•Federal Trade Commission Guid e for Business
http://www.ftc. gov/bcp/edu/microsites/infosecurity /
•Federal Trade Commission – Identity Theft Information:
http://www. onguard online.gov/topics/computer-security. aspx
•Federal Trade Commission’s Interactive Tuto rial:
www.ftc.gov/in fosecurity
•National Institute of Standards and Tech nology (NIST)’s Comp uter Security Reso urce Center:  
www.csrc.n ist.gov
•NIST briefin g on Cyb ersecurity for Small Businesses:
http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/sbc/documents/sbc_workshop _presentation _201 5_ver1.pdf  FCC SMALL BIZ CYBER PLANNING GUIDE
CSL-3Government Resources (cont’d) 
•NIST Guid e to Selecting Information Techn ology Secu rity Prod ucts:
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/n istpubs/800-36/NIST-SP800-36 .pdf
•NIST’s Risk Managemen t Guide for Information Tech nology Systems:
www.csrc. nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-30/sp80 0-30.pdf
•NIST Small Business Corn er - A link to the NIST-SBA-FBI Small Business Information Secu rity outreach  
pages :
http://csrc.nist.gov/g roups/SMA/sbc/index.h tml
•NIST Small Business Information Security:
http://nvlp ubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ir/2016/NIST. IR.7621r1.pdf
•SBA,  NIST and FBI partnership on Cybersecurity for small businesses:
http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/sbc/overv iew.html
•United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT):
www.u s-cert.gov
•U.S. Department of Homeland Security Cyber Secu rity Reso urces:
http://www.dhs.gov /cyber 
Publications 
•Cloud Security Allian ce
h
ttps://cloudsecurityalliance.org/csaguide.pdf
•Co mputer Security Resource Center, Nati onal Instiitute of Standards and Technology :
h
ttp://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/sbc/library.html
•Microsoft Small Business Guid e:
http://download.microsoft.com/download/3/a/2/3a208c3c-f355-43ce-bab4-890db267899b/
Security_Guide_for_Small_Business.pdf
•Protecting Your Small Business, Entrepreneur Magazine:
http://www.entrepreneur.com/magazine /en trepreneur/2010/june/206656.html
•Sm
all business Information Security: The Fundamentals, National Institute of Standards and Technolog y:
h
ttp://csrc.nist.gov/publicati ons/nistir/ir7621/nistir-7621.pdf 