FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION  
Washington, D.C. 20554  
 
FCC DIRECTIVE  
 
 TITLE  
 
FCC CYBERSECURITY AND PRIVACY 
PROGRAM S 
 
Directive Number : 
 
FCCINST 1479.7 
 Effective Date : 
 
August 1 1, 2023  
 
 
1. PURPOSE :  This d irective establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for assuring 
optimal levels of information security and privacy required for Federal Communications Commission (FCC  or Commission ) information, information systems, and information 
technology resources.   
 
2. BACKGROUND:  This Directive authorizes the FCC’s Cybersecurity and Privacy 
Programs and adopts and incorporates by reference the FCC Cybersecurity and Privacy 
Policy (CSPP) and the Privacy Program Manual (Manual) .1  Collectively, the 
Cybersecurity and Privacy Programs require adherence to  federal laws and associated 
requirements governing information security and privacy, and specifically federal policies,  procedures, and requirements for the implementation of infor mation security  
and privacy controls.  These controls generally protect against potential security 
vulnerabilities and breaches by providing safeguards to minimize risks to individuals, 
information systems, physical property, and other assets.  This directive , the CSPP and 
Manual , will be updated as necessary to reflect changes in relevant federal law s, 
regulations, guidance, or Executive Orders .  They have been drafted in accordance 
with the FCC’s responsibilities to protect information contained in the FCC’s 
information technology systems and will be updated as the security or privacy 
requirements change in response to new technologies and federal  guidance, but not less 
frequently than annually.  The current versions of the se documents are available for 
review on the FCC Intranet .  
 
3. CANCELLATION:  This directive replaces FCCINST 1479.6, dated April 2022, and  
FCCINST 1113.2, dated April 2016. 
 
4. SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:  This directive appl ies to all FCC Bureaus, Offices,  
individuals, and s taff (i.e., Federal employees, contractor s taff, other administrator  
staff, temporary staff, interns, or volunteers) who  access  and use FCC  information  
systems or data to conduct Commission business.  This directive also appl ies to all 
information collected or maintained by, or on behalf of, the FCC and all information 
systems used or operated by an FCC contractor or administrator . 
 
1 The Manual , previously styled the Privacy Act Manual, FCCINST 1113.1, contains  detailed FCC policies, 
procedures, and information requirements for implementing the FCC’s Privacy Program.  2 
  
5. AUTHORITIES :  Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA) , 44 
U.S.C. § 3551, et seq., as amended ;2 Section  208 of the E-Government Act of 2002, 44 
U.S.C. § 3501 note; the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a; Executive Orders; Office 
of Management and Budget (OMB) Memoranda and Circulars; and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and Special Publications.   
 
6. POLICY :  With this directive, the FCC authorizes its Cybersecurity and Privacy 
Programs in  accordance with guidance from OMB .3  The purpose of these programs is 
to protect the C onfidentiality , Integrity , and A vailability  (CIA) of information stored 
and processed in FCC information systems (Federal , Contractor, or administrator 
managed) , supporting FCC’s mission, and to ensure that the systems and information 
are available to authorized users when required.  Security and privacy  controls are 
crucial to ensur ing the protection and preservation of the CIA4 of electronic 
information resources critical to the FCC, the U.S. Government, and the public.    
All FCC information  and systems shall be protected from unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, or destruction, whether accidental or intentional, to  maintain the ir CIA .  Security and privacy controls that provide this 
protection shall meet, at a minimum, federal FIPS 199 Moderate security requirements , 
ensure that FCC information is persistently protected, and promote a defense- in-depth 
security strategy .   
 
The FCC will follow the NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-37, Risk Management Framework , as a starting point that promotes consistent, cost- effecti ve security and 
privacy  standards across all FCC information , systems, and services.   NIST SP 800-53 
and OMB guidance are used to establish the security  and privacy baselines by defining 
appropriate security and privacy controls to protect FCC information , systems,  and 
services.    
 
All FCC personnel (i.e., Federal employees, contractor s taff, other administrator staff,  
temporary staff, interns, or volunteers ) or anyone else with access to federal information 
and federal information systems
5 shall  abide by the programs and policy established by 
this directive  and any other applicable documents to ensure the CIA of all information 
and information systems.   
 
2 The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002, enacted as Title III, E -Government Act of 2002, Pub. 
L. No. 107 -347, 116 Stat. 2899, 2946 (Dec. 17, 2002) was subsequently modified by the Federal Information 
Security Modernization Act of 2014 (Pub. L. No. 113 -283, Dec. 18, 2014).  As modified, FISMA is codified at 44 
U.S.C. § 3551 et seq.  
3 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A -130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource , July 
28, 2016 (OMB Circular A -130).  
4 44 U.S.C. § 3552(3); OMB Circular A -130. 
5 Federal information system means an information system used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an 
agency or by another organization on behalf of an agency.   See OMB Circular A -130 at 29.  3 
  
Additionally, it is FCC policy to protect the personally identifiable information (PII) in its possession .
6  All FCC personnel (i.e., Federal employees, contractor s taff, other 
administrator staff,  temporary staff, interns, or volunteers) shall be made aware of, and 
comply with, the Privacy Act and other applicable laws and guidelines addressing privacy.  Data about individuals (including PII) shall be collected, maintained, processed, disclosed, and destroyed in accordance with the Privacy Act and other applicable law s 
and requirements.    
 All FCC information and information systems must be maintained, store d and secured 
within the Continental United States (CONUS)  and territories .  All  FCC  personnel (i.e., 
Federal employees, contractor s taff, other administrator staff,  temporary staff, interns,  or 
volunteers)  supporting FCC systems must be able to achieve, at minimum,  a High -Risk 
Public Trust.  
7. ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES :  The following is a brief overview of the roles and 
responsibilities related to the Cybersecurity and Privacy Programs.  A full description 
of these responsibilities is contained in the CSPP, the Privacy Program Manual, and 
other specific cybersecurity and privacy policies including “ Responding to a PII 
Breach ,” the FCC’s standard operating procedure (Breach SOP) for responding to a PII  
breach . 
 
A. The FCC Chairperson shall, in consultation with the Managing Director and the 
General Counsel, designate the Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) 
within the Office of General C ounsel; the SAOP shall have agency -wide 
responsibility to ensure compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to information privacy. 
 
B. The Managing Director shall oversee the management of the FCC Cybersecurity 
and P rivacy Programs. 
 
C. The FCC Chief Information Officer (CIO ) shall share overall responsibility for 
the Cybersecurity and Privacy Programs with the SAOP and  shall have primary 
responsibility for overseeing the development and maintenance of a Commission-wide information security  program.  The CIO shall preserve and protect PII 
contained in FCC information systems; collaborate with the SAOP to safeguard information maintained or transmitted by an information system; and assist the Bureaus and Offices in the implementation of uniform and consistent policies and standards governing the acquisition, maintenance, and use of information systems and information technology.  The CIO shall establish training programs for FCC personnel and contract ors to ensure ongoing compliance with information security 
laws, regulations, policies, and procedures.  The CIO shall provide Bureau/Office 
 
6 Under applicable federal guidance, PII means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s 
identity, either alone or when combined with other information t hat is linked or linkable to a specific individual.  
OMB Circular A -130 at 33.  4 
 (B/O) Chiefs, Information Owners, System Owners, and FCC System Users with 
Standard Operating Procedures (e.g. step-by-step instructions with process milestones  and timelines , and roles and responsibilities defined, for implementing 
FCC information systems) to carry out their responsibilities under this Directive , 
including at the commencement of developing new information technology systems.  The CIO will  allocate adequate IT staff and contractor resources to 
guide and assist B/O Chiefs, Information Owners, System Owners, and FCC System Users.  The CIO will ensure that IT staff and contractors provide adequate customer service to B/ O Chiefs, Information Ow ners, System Owners, and FCC 
System Users .  The CIO will ensure that IT staff and contractors coordinate with 
each other  and all entities listed under Roles and Responsibilities  to ensure timely 
completion of assigned activities.  
 
D. The FCC Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall carry out the CIO’s 
responsibilities under FISMA, with information security as their primary duty, and shall head a division with the required mission and resources to assist in achieving and maintaining organizational compli ance with FCC and federal 
government information security policies, standards and procedures. 
 
E. The FCC SAOP  shall share overall responsibility for the privacy components 
referenced in the Cybersecurity and Privacy Programs with the CIO and shall be primarily  responsible  for developing, implementing, and maintaining a 
Commission -wide privacy program to ensure compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations regarding the collection, processing, maintenance, disclosure, and disposal of PII and to manage privacy risks.  The FCC SAOP shall provide guidance to the FCC Chairperson, Commissioners, and senior leadership on privacy issues.  The SAOP shall coordinate with the CIO , CISO,  and the B/O 
Chiefs to ensure that, while still fulfilling its missions and functions, the FCC is limiting the collection, processing, mainte nance, and disclosure of PII to the 
minimum necessary; avoiding the use of PII in nonproduction environments; and addressing privacy risks at the design stage when acquiring, developing, or modifying information systems.  Consistent with the FCC Privacy Program Manual, the SAOP shall chair the FCC Data Integrity Board ( DIB) that oversees 
information sharing, computer matching, and related issues; review and approve all FIPS -199 categorizations, System of Records Notices (SORNs), Initial Privacy 
Assessments (IPAs), and Privacy Impact Assessments  (PIAs); ensure that all FCC 
personnel (i.e., Federal employees, contractor  staff, other administrator staff,  
temporary staff, interns, or volunteers)  receive appropriate training and education 
regarding privacy laws, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the agency’s handling of PII; play a central policymaking role in the Commission’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and related policy proposals implicating privacy issues; and coordinate the agency’s response to PII breaches under the Breach SOP.  
 
F. The FCC Privacy Team  shall be comprised of the SAOP,  attorney advisors from 
the Office of General Counsel , and the Privacy Analyst.  The Privacy Team shall 5 
 be responsible for ensuring ongoing compliance with federal laws, regulations, 
and policies relating to privacy; providing training and education regarding privacy laws, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the collection, processing, maintenance, disclos ure, and disposal of PII; drafting and negotiating 
Computer Matching Agreements ( CMAs ) with federal and state entities and 
satisfying all requirements related to the FCC DIB; drafting, altering, amending, and updating SORNs ; reviewing FIPS-199s, IPAs, and PIAs for information 
systems; reviewing Commission items for privacy issues; reviewing contracts that involve the collection, processing, maintenance, disclosure, and disposal of PII; responding to requests under the Privacy Act; supporting the agency’s response to PII breaches; and coordinating the submission of required documents (e.g., submitting SORNs to the Office of Management and Budget, and Congress for advance review and for publication in the Federal Register ). 
 
G. The FCC B/O Chiefs  shall ensure that Information Owners, System Owners, and 
Business Owners within their B/Os  perform their delegated roles and 
responsibilities  and keep  the CIO and SAOP apprised of changes in the collection, 
processing, maintenance, disclosure, or disposal of information, or the acquisition of new information, information systems, or information technology resources .   
 
H. The Information Owner  or Information Steward shall be the individual or group 
that helps to ensure the careful and responsible management of federal 
information belonging to the Nation as a whole, regardless of the entity or source that may have originated, created, or compiled the information.  Information stewards provide maximum access to federal information to elements of the federal  government and its customers, balanced by the obligation to protect the 
information in accordance with the provisions of FISMA and any associated security -related federal policies, directives, regulations, standards, and guidance.  
The information owner or information steward may not be tied to a particular Bureau or Office ; the role may vary by information system.  
 
 
I. Information System Security Officers  (ISSOs)  shall collaborate with System 
Owners and the SAOP to assist with the completion of privacy documentation required for an Authority to Operate (ATO) such as FIPS-199 categorizations, IPAs, and, if necessary PIAs.  The ISSO may not be tied to a particular Bureau or Office ; the role may vary by information system.  ISSOs  shall co llaborate with the 
System Owners and Information Owner(s) for ensuring that the security and privacy posture is maintained for an organizational system and works in close collaboration with the system owner.  ISSOs serve as the principal advisors on all 
matters, technical and otherwise, involving the controls for systems and  have the 
knowledge and expertise to manage the security or privacy aspects of organizational systems.  ISSOs shall be r esponsible  for the day -to-day system 
security and privacy operations including developing and updating security and privacy plans, managing and controlling changes to the system, and assessing the security or privacy impact of those changes. 
 6 
 J. System Owner  shall be the official responsible for the procurement, development, 
integration, modification, operation, maintenance, and disposal of a system.  The 
system owner may not be tied to a particular Bureau or Office ; the role may vary 
by information system.  The system owner is responsible for addressing the operational interests of the user community (i.e., users who require access to the system to satisfy mission, business, or operational requirements) and for ensuring compliance with security requirements.   In coordinati on with the ISSOs and 
Privacy Team , the system owner is responsible for the development and 
maintenance of the security and privacy plans and ensures that the system is operated in accordance with the selected and implemented controls.  The system owner en sures that system users and support personnel receive the requisite 
security and privacy training.  Based on guidance from the authorizing official, the system owner informs organizational officials of the need to conduct the authorization, ensures that resources are available for the effort, and provides the required system access, information, and documentation to control assessors.  The system owner receives the security and privacy assessment results from the control assessors.  After taking appropriate steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerabilities or security and privacy risks, the system owner assembles the authorization package and submits the package to the authorizing official or the authorizing official designated representative for adjudication.  
 
K. Business Owner shall be t he senior official or executive within an organization 
with specific mission or line of business responsibilities and  shall have a security 
or privacy interest in the organizational systems supporting those missions or lines of business.  The business owner may not be tied to a particular Bureau or Office ; the role may vary by information system.  Business owners shall be key 
stakeholders that have a significant role in establishing organizational mission and business processes and the protection needs and security and privacy requirements that ensure the successful conduct of the organization’s missions and business operations.
 
 
L. Enterprise Acquisition Center  shall ensure that proposed solicitations and 
contracts  that involve the collection, use, processing, maintenance, or disclosure 
of PII are reviewed in advance by the SAOP; ensure inclusion of appropriate clauses concerning the p rotection of PII and compliance with applicable laws, 
regulations, requirements, and directives are included in solicitations and contracts; assist the SAOP with procuring identity theft protection/monitoring in the event that the Chairperson has approved such measures in response to a PII breach; provide contract management ; and ensure Contracting Officer 
Representatives conduct oversight of contractor compliance with FCC privacy requirements.  
 
M. The FCC System Users  are FCC personnel who  must adhere to agency policies , 
including those described in section 8 of this Directive, “Rules of Behavior,” as well as  staying up to date on changes to those policies and directives. 
 7 
 8. Rules of Behavior:  The Privacy Act of 1974, F ISMA , OMB A-123 and A-130 mandate 
that federal agencies maintain Rules of Behavior (RoB) for using federal systems.  Prior 
to obtaining access to FCC systems, all personnel, including contractors and others 
working on behalf of the FCC, must agree to the FCC’s RoB.  The RoB delineate responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals with access to FCC systems and state the consequences of non -compliance.  The CIO and the SAOP shall define and 
maintain enterprise wide RoB that can be used for all information systems.  The RoB shall be reviewed and updated as necessary , but not less than annually.  FCC OCIO  shall 
ensure that users requesting access to FCC systems complete Cybersecurity Awareness Training and sign the FCC RoB. 
 
9. EFFECTIVE DATE AND IMPLEMENTATION :  This directive is effective 
immediately and shall be implemented promptly upon distribution. 
    
Mark Stephens 
      Managing Director 