 
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
 
October 19, 2020
Federal Telecommunications  Modernization: Transitioning 
from Networx to Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions
Background  
Periodically, the General Services Administration (GSA) 
negotiates new contracts through which federal agencies 
can acquire their telecommunications services. Current 
contracts —known as Networx, Washington Interagency 
Telecommunications System 3, and Regio nal Local Service 
Agreements —are scheduled to end on May 31, 2023. Each 
of these contracts has been extended twice. In FY2019, 
agencies spent about $2.5 billion on services acquired 
through these contracts , with about $2 billion going to 
Networx . 
EIS Overview  
The new GSA telecommunications services acquisition 
contract vehicle  is Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions (EIS) . 
On August 1, 2017, the GSA  announced that it had awarded 
EIS contracts to 10 vendors. These contracts have a 
combined value of up t o $50 billion and  are for a possible 
period of up to 15 years —one 5 -year base period and two 
5-year option periods. According to the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO), more than 135 agencies will 
transition 32 types of services and millions of voice a nd 
data lines to the new contract.  EIS is intended to deliver  
 cost savings resulting from increased supplier 
competition and price transparency;  
 qualified industry suppliers who can deliver a 
complete portfolio of cyber -security solutions;  
 an ability to in corporate emerging technologies as 
they become available; and  
 flexibility to address unique agency requirements . 
The Transition to EIS 
In 2017, GSA identified several critical milestones (Figure 
1) that agencies should meet to ensure they will have 
completely transitioned to EIS before their current contracts 
expire . These dates were set in an effort to avoid the costly 
delays associated with  previous tran sitions.  
Agencies have principal responsibility for the transition . 
According to GSA, agencies must  
 identify key personnel for the transition;  
 engage expertise from agency leadership to build a 
transition team of telecommunications managers, 
acquisition ex perts, and financial staff;  
 conduct an inventory of services to be transitioned;  
 develop a transition plan and schedule that includes 
GSA’s major transition milestones;  
 prepare solicitations for task orders;  
 place task and service orders; and  
 develop a pro cess to review, accept/reject, and pay for 
services.  
 GSA is providing assistance through  
 a Transition Coordination Center to provide assistance 
with inventory validation, transition planning, and 
solicitation development; and  
 Transition Ordering Assistance for requirements 
development, source selection, and proposal 
evaluation.  
The Transition Coordination Center was put in place in 
January 2016 . Transition Ordering Assistance was finalized 
in March 2017.  
Figure 1. Enterpr ise Infrastructure Solutions  Timeline  
 
Source: CRS based on General  Services Administration  data. 
In April 2020, GAO testi fied that the majority of the 19 
federal agencies it had studied had not met the two 2019 
milestones and were not on track to meet th e final (2022) 
milestone ( Table 1). 
Federal Telecommunications Modernization: Transitioning from Networx to Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Table 1. Status and Plans for  Completing EIS 
Transition Activities by GSA M ilestone Dates  (as of 
April 2020 ) 
EIS 
transition 
activity  GSA’s 
milestone 
date to 
complete 
activity  Agencies 
that 
completed 
or plan to 
complete 
activity by 
milestone 
date Agencies 
that did not 
or do not 
plan to 
complete 
activity by 
milestone 
date 
Milestone 1  3/31/2019 5 14 
Milestone 2  9/30/2019 1 18 
Milestone 3  9/30/2022 8 11 
Source:  Government Accountability Office analysis of data provided 
by agency officials.  Telecommunications: Fully Implementing 
Established Transition Planning Practices Would Help Agencies 
Reduce Risk of Costly Delays , GAO -20-458T, March 4, 2020,  
https://www.gao.gov/ products/ GAO -20-458T . 
Note:  For milestone definitions, see Figure 1. 
Comparison to  Previous Transitions  
GSA’s establishment of early transition milestone dates was 
in response to the significant delays that occurred during 
the las t two contract transitions . GAO found that th ose 
delays led to “hundreds of millions of dollars in increased 
costs and missed savings. ” Delays associated with the 
transition that began in 1998 resulted in an estimated $74 
million in  missed savings.  The transition to Netw orx, which 
began in  2007, took 33 months longer than planned , and the 
majority of agencies  experienced transition delays. In 2013, 
GAO  reported that these delays resulted in  an increase o f 
$66.4 million in costs to GSA. The delays also resulted in 
an estim ated $329  million in lost savings because agencies 
continued  to order services  from the previous  contract even 
after the same services were available  through Networx , 
generally  at lower rates.  At the time, GAO attributed  the 
delays to inadequate project planning.  
Legislative Review of Transition  
In August 2020, the House Committee on Oversight and 
Reform’s Subcommittee  on Government Operations added 
EIS transition status to its “scorecard ,” which it publishe s 
twice a year to assess compliance with the Fe deral 
Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act 
(FITARA).  The s ubcommittee assessed , by percentage,  the 
extent to which 24 agencies had moved off expiring 
contracts  (Table 2). The new EIS category was not used in 
agencies’ final grade in August 2020 , but it may be a factor 
in future scoring.  
The highest reported EIS transition percentages, at or over 
70%, were at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Nati onal 
Science Foundation, and Department of the Treasury. The 
lowest percentages, at or under 30%  transitioned , were at 
the Department of State, Department of Defense, 
Department of Homeland Security, Department of 
Commerce, Small Business Administration, Office of 
Personnel Management, and National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration . Overall,  6 out of 24 agencies 
reported over 50% EIS adoption. The higher the percentage achieved in this initial assessment, the better  positioned  an 
agency is expected to be to fully transition to EIS and 
achieve 100% transition by the September 30, 2022 , 
milestone date .  
Table 2. Percent Transition to Enterprise 
Infrastructure Solutions by Agency  (as of April 2020 ) 
 
Source:  FITARA 10.0 Scorecard , https://oversight.house.gov/ sites/
democrats.oversight.house.gov/ files/Scorecard%2010%20 -
%20USAID%20corrected.pdf . 
Note:  Percentages at or above 70% are shown in green ; percentages 
at or below 30% are shown in red. 
Additional Legislative Activity : 
116th Congress  
The House Committee on Oversight and Reform ’s 
Subcommittee on Government Operations held a hearing, 
“Making IT a P riority for the Federal Government,” on 
March 4, 2020.  The hearing examined several initiatives of 
GSA’s Federal Acquisition Service. The service operates 
several programs to help agencies modernize their existing 
information technology infrastructure and adopt new 
technologies. EIS was one of the three topics for the 
hearing. No legislation has been introduced in the 116th 
Congress that would directly impact current 
telecommunications modernization  efforts . 
Patricia Moloney Figliola , Specialist in Internet and 
Telecommunications Policy    
IF11668
Federal Telecommunications Modernization: Transitioning from Networx to Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF11668  · VERSION 2 · NEW   
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to 
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. 
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has 
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the 
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be 
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include 
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you 
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 