CRS Legal Sidebar  
Prepared for Members and  
Committees of Congress  
  
 
 
  Legal Sidebar i 
 
New FCC Rules Ban Authorizations for 
Equipment Posing National Security Risks   
January 11, 2023  
On November 25 , 2022, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) released  new rules  restricting  
equipment  that po ses national security risks from being imported to  or sold in the United States. Under 
the new rules , the FCC will not issue  new authorizations for  telecommunications  equipment produced by 
Huawei  Technologies Company (Huawei)  and ZTE Corporation (ZTE) , the two largest  
telecommunications  equipment manufacturers in the People ’s Republic of China  (PRC) . The FCC  also 
will not authorize equipment produced by three PRC -based  surveillance camera  manufacturers —Hytera 
Communications  (Hytera) , Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology  (Hikvision) , and Dahua Technology  
(Dahua) —until the FCC approves these  entities’ plans to ensure  that their equipment is not marketed or 
sold for public safety purposes, government facilities, critical infrastructure, or other national security 
purposes. The FCC  did not, however,  revoke any of its  prior authorizations for these companies ’ 
equipment , although it sought comments  on whether  it should do so in the future.  
These new rules are the latest action in the federal government ’s broader  effort to secure  U.S. 
communications networks  and prohibit the use of equipment that could give a foreign adversary  the 
ability to exploit those networks. This Sidebar starts by provid ing a brief background on  past steps taken 
by the federal government,  particula rly the FCC,  to protect communications networks from national 
security risk. The Sidebar  then reviews  the FCC ’s role in authorizing equipment  and explains how the 
new rules fit into that authorization process. The Sidebar then  discusses potential legal cha llenges to the 
new rules and concludes with some considerations for Congress.  
Prior Efforts to Protect  U.S. Communications Networks 
from Foreign Adversaries  
As explained  in another CRS Report , the federal government has taken several  steps in recent years to 
secure  U.S. co mmunications networks from potential exploitation by foreign adversaries. For example, i n 
Section 889  of the National Defense Authorization Act  for Fiscal Year 2019  (FY2019 NDAA) , Congress 
restri cted Executive Branch agencies from procuring systems that use Huawei, ZTE, Hytera, Hikvision, 
or Dahua equipment or services and from contracting with companies that use their equipment or 
services. The Department of Commerce  has also set up a process  for reviewing, and potentially 
Congressional Research Service  
https://crsreports.congress.gov  
LSB10895  Congressional Research Service  2 
  prohibit ing, transactions that impact the information and telecommunications technology and services 
(ICTS) supply chain and raise national security concerns , as discussed in a CRS In Focus . 
The FCC has also acted to address national security risk in communicati ons networks. First, t he FCC 
prohibited  several PRC telecommunications carriers from providing  telecommunications services 
between the U nited States and abroad. Under Sectio n 214  of the Communications Act, 
telecommunication s carriers must  obtain an authorization  from the FCC before building, operating, or 
extending a communications line between the Uni ted States and a foreign point.  Applications to the FCC 
for these international communicat ions lines are reviewed  for national security concerns  by an 
interagency Executive Branch committee  (Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the 
United States Telecommunications Services Sector , formerly known as Team Telecom), who may  
recommend to the FCC that the application be denied or may recommend that exis ting authorizations be 
revoked.  In recent years, the FCC has rev oked or denied international S ection 214 authorizations for 
several PRC telecommunications c ompanies —including China Mobile , China Telecom , China Unicom , 
and Pacific Networks —based  on the executive branch agencies ’ assessment that the PRC government 
controls these firms and related concerns about government influence on these companies . China Telecom 
challenged the FCC ’s revocation decision in federa l court , but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. 
Circuit rejected the challenge in an opinion issued under seal  (i.e., unav ailable to the public) .  
The FCC has also sought  to remove equipment raising national security concerns from U.S. 
telecommunications infrastructure through its Univers al Service Fund (USF) restrictions and  
reimbursement program. The USF subsidizes  voice and broadband int ernet service in rural and high -cost 
areas. As discussed further in a CRS Repo rt, the FCC has restricted  telecommunications carriers receiving 
USF funds from using equipment or services that appear on a  “Covered List ” published by the FCC.  The 
Covered List currently includes equipment and services provided by the PRC -based companies Huawei, 
ZTE, Hytera, Hikvision, Dah ua, China Mobile, China Telecom, China Unicom, and Pacific Networks. It 
also includes information security products and services provided by the Russian cybersecurity company 
Kaspersky Lab.  While the FCC first established the USF restrictions on its own in itiative, in March 2020 
Congress passed the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019  (Secure Networks Act), 
which prohibits the use of FCC subsidies for the pur chase, lease, or maintenance of equipment or services 
appearing on the Covered List. The Secure Networks Act also  provides additional direction  for the FCC ’s 
maintenance of the Covered List, and it  creates a program to reimburse carriers for the costs of replacing 
“covered equipment ” in their networks, as detailed in a CRS Insight .  
The FCC ’s Equipment Authorization Authority  
Most recently , the FCC has used its  equipment  authorization authority to restrict electronic devices  raising 
national security concerns . The Communications Act authorizes  the FCC to adopt regulations, consistent 
with the “public interest, ” that govern the “interference pote ntial” of devices  capable of emitting radio 
frequency (RF) energy.  Under this authority, the FCC has adopted rules requiring RF devices  to be 
authorized by the FCC before being imported or marketed in the United States. The FCC has explained  
that “[a]lmost all electronic -electrical products ” are subject to this authorization requirement.   
The authorization process follows two paths, depending on the nature of the device. The first path is 
certification , which applies to equipment with the greatest potential to cause harmful interference to radio 
services. This category mainly  includes “intentional radiators ” designed to  emit RF energy ( such as cell 
phones , Bluetooth radio devices, and wireless garage door openers) . Under the certification process , 
authorization application s are reviewed and approved by a Telecommunications Certification Body , which 
evaluates the device ’s document and test data to see if it complies with Commission rules. The second 
path is the Supplier ’s Declaration of Conformity (SDoC) process , which applies to electronic devices that 
have no radio  transmit ters and pose less risk for harmful interference  (such as computer peripherals, Congressional Research Service  3 
  microwave ovens, and LED lightbulbs) . Under the SDoC process, the responsible manufacturer or 
importer  only needs  to make a self -determination that the equipment complies with the FCC ’s technical 
standards and must make testing information available to the FCC upon request. Some devices  are exempt 
from the certification and SDoC processes  because their potential for causing harmful interference is so 
low, such as devices with very  low power consumption or that generate very low frequencies .  
New Equipment Authorization R ules  
On November 25, 2022, the  FCC released a Report and Order  (R&O) in which it adopted new  equipment 
authorization rules (EA Rules) prohibiting authorizations  for equipment on the Covered List (Covered 
Equipment).  While t hese rules are the culmination of a rulem aking proceeding beg un in J une 2021, they 
also implement the Secure Equipment Act of 2021 . The Secure Equipment Act took effect i n November 
2022 and  directs  the FCC to adopt rules that “clarify ” that the Commission will “no longer review or 
approve ” authorizations for equipment on the Covered List.  
The EA Rules requir e all applicants using the certification process to attest  that the application is not for 
Covered Equipment . They  also prohibi t companies named on the Covered List from using the SDoC 
process or from relying on an exemption  for their equipment , even if th at equipment is not Covered 
Equipment . The FCC explained  that this requirement will secure its  oversight over these companies and 
prevent evasion of the prohibition on Cove red Equipment . While the FCC did not revoke prior  
authorizations  for Covered Equipment, it did  assert its authority to do so and  asked for comments  on 
whether and how it should do so. It also asked for comment s on whe ther and how it should withhold 
authorization for  component parts (i.e.,  pieces of equipment that are used within a finished product ) 
manufactured by entities named on the Covered List .  
As the R&O explains , Covered Equipment currently includes  “telecommunications equipment ” and 
“video surveillance equipment ” produced by Huawei, ZTE, Hytera, Hikvision, and Dahua. According to 
the R&O, “telecommunications equipment ” broadly encompasses  any equipment that can be used in a 
broadband network, including consumer electronic devices that exchange data over the internet. “Video 
surveillance equipment ” encompasses  any device  that enable s users to originate and receive high -quality 
video service over broadband internet , such as surve illance cameras, body cameras, and data  storage 
devices for video surveillance. Any telecommunications or video surveillance equipment produced by 
Huawei or ZTE is Covered Equipment; by contrast, equipment produced by Hytera, Hikvision, and 
Dahua is only considered Covered Equipment if it is used for a prohibited purpose  (such as security of 
government facilities, s urveillance of critical infrastructure, and other national security purposes). Still,  
the FCC announced  that it would not approve any telecommunications or video surveillan ce equipment 
made by these three companies unless they first submit a plan for the FCC ’s approval outlining how they 
will ensure the equipment is not marketed or sold for a prohibited purpose.  
Potential Legal Challenges   
Interested  parties impacted by the  EA Rules  will have 30 days  from the R&O ’s publication in the Fed eral 
Register (FR) to file a legal challenge in a federal appellate court.  As the R&O has not yet been published 
in the FR  (publication is delayed  due to the need for Office of Management and Budget review  under the 
Paperwork Reduction Act ), it remains to be seen whether it will be litigated .  
Should the EA R ules be challenged in court, the litigation might focus on arguments that the rules exceed 
the FCC ’s statutory authority . For instance , during the rulemaking , Hikvision maintain ed that the FCC did 
not h ave statutory authority to ban  video surveillance equipment because it is “peripheral ” customer 
premises equipment rather than essential  to communications networks. Hikvision argued  that banning this Congressional Research Service  4 
  type of equipment would be “so unprecedented ” that, under the  major questions doc trine, the FCC needs  
explicit authorization from Congress to  do so.  
Litigants might also challenge  the rules  on constitutional grounds. Commenters proffered v arious 
constitutional arguments  during  the rulemaking , including  that the rules violate the E qual Protection 
Clause , are an unconstitutional taking of property , and violate separation of powers . The argument most 
commonly made , however,  is that the restric tions  are an unconstitutional “bill of attainder ” (i.e., 
legislative punishment) . Under U.S. Supreme Court precedent , a law is an unconstitutional bill of 
attainder if it (1) specifically targets individuals or g roups and (2) inflicts punishment without a trial. 
Objecting  companies may have particular difficulty  establishing that the restrictions inflict punishment. In 
Huawei ’s challenge to the 2019 NDAA, a federal district  court  held that the statute ’s restriction did not 
amount to punishment because the law reasonably furthered non -punitive goals, such as  protecting 
national security and information al security. The D.C. Circuit reached a similar conclusion in its 2018 
decision  in Kaspersky Lab, Inc. v. DHS , which dealt  with the  2017 NDAA ’s prohib ition on government 
agencies using “hardware, software, or services ” developed by the Russian cybersecurity company 
Kaspersky Lab. For more  discussion of these cases, see CRS Legal Sidebar LSB10274, Huawe i v. United 
States: The Bill of Attainder Clause and Huawei ’s Lawsuit Against the United States , coordinated by 
Joanna R. Lampe .  
Considerations for Congress  
Over the past several years, Congress has played an active role overseeing the FCC ’s approach to 
securing the nation ’s communications networks, in particular b y passing the Secure Networks Act and the 
Secure Equipment A ct. Congress could continue to shape the FCC ’s efforts in this space  and might 
address  some of the outstanding issues around equipm ent authorizations .  
For instance, the FCC is considering whether to revoke  prior  authorizations for Covered Equipment , but 
has not yet done so . If Congress believes that revoking prior authorizations is undesirable because, for 
instance, it might  limit consumer options for affordable electronic equipment or impact the supply  chain , 
it could prohibit the FCC from taking this step. Alternatively, Congress could require the FCC to revoke 
prior authorizations for Covered Equipment  if it believes doing so is necessary for network  or national  
security .  
Should Congress require revocation , one consideration is th at revoking prior authorizations might 
implicate the U.S. Constituti on’s Due Process Clause . Under the Due P rocess  Clause , the government 
may not  deprive any person of their property without notice of the government action and a meaningful 
opportunity to contest it. Government benefits  or licenses  may be considered property interests  under the 
Due Process Clause if they give the recipient a “legitimate claim of entitlement ” to the uninterrupted 
enjoyment of the benefit. While c ourts have not said  whether  companies have a constitutionally protected 
property interes t in FCC equipment authorizatio ns, legislation that empowers the FCC to revoke 
authorizations without notice and an opportunity to respond could raise due process challenges . Affected 
companies might also argue that r evoking prior authorizations without compensation violates the 
Constitution ’s Takings C lause . The Takings Clause prohibits  the government from “tak[ing] proper ty for 
public use, without just compen sation. ” It is unlikely  that the equipment authorizations themselves would 
be property under  the Takings C lause, as courts have generally been skeptical  of argum ents that 
government licenses are property  for Takings C lause purposes.  Affected companies may argue , however,  
that a revocation is  a “regulatory taking ” if it results in serious financial loss  in a way that frustrates their 
reasonable investment -backed expectations . Congress may seek to shift the burden for future 
authorizations  by estab lishing a timeframe in which a n authorization  or transfer  sunsets , similar to the 
way broadcast licenses are granted for a defined duration , rather than allowing a grant of the authorization 
in perpetuity , thereby potentially limiting future revocation actions .  Congressional Research Service  5 
LSB10895  · VERSION 2 · NEW   
Congress might also address whether the FCC should deny authorizations for equipment with component 
parts  produced by entities on the Covered List. The FCC  said that component parts produced by these 
entities could pose  an unacceptable national security risk , and the agency is exploring  how to address this 
issue. Some commentators, such as the Internet & Television Association  (NCTA) , have argued  that the 
FCC ’s equipment authorization  authority is limited to finished products  and that extending the prohibition 
to component parts would burden small companies with limited ability to  identify the manufacturer of 
every component in a given piece of equipment . Congress might weigh in, for instance, by passing 
legislation clarifying whether and how the FCC should approach component parts in the authorization 
process.  
 
Author Information  
 
Chris D. Linebaugh  
Legislative Attorney  
   
 
 
 
Disclaimer  
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff 
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of 
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of 
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. 
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United 
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, 
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the 
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.  
 