 
NATIO NAL 
CYBERSECURITY 
STRATEGY  
 
 
MARCH  2023
 
 
March 1, 2023  
 
 
Digital technologies today touch nearly every aspect of American life.  The openness and 
connection enabled by access to the Internet are game -changers for communities everywhere, as 
we have all experienced throughout the COVID -19 pandemic.  That’s why, thanks to the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, my Administration is investing $65 billion to make sure every 
American has access to reliable, high -speed Internet.  And when we pick up our smart phones to 
keep in  touch with loved ones, log on to social media to share our ideas with one another, or 
connect to the Internet to run a business or take care of any of our basic needs, we need to be 
able to trust that the underlying digital ecosystem is safe, reliable, an d secure.  This National 
Cybersecurity Strategy details the comprehensive approach my Administration is taking to better 
secure cyberspace and ensure the United States is in the strongest possible position to realize all 
the benefits and potential of our d igital future.  
 
Cybersecurity is essential to the basic functioning of our economy, the operation of our critical 
infrastructure, the strength of our democracy and democratic institutions, the privacy of our data 
and communications, and our national defens e.  From the very beginning of my Administration, 
we have moved decisively to strengthen cybersecurity.  I appointed senior cybersecurity officials 
at the White House and issued an Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity.  
Working in close cooperation with the private sector, my Administration has taken steps to 
protect the American people from hackers, hold bad actors and cybercriminals accountable, and 
defend against the increasingly malicious cyber campaigns targeting our security and pri vacy.  
And we’ve worked with our allies and partners around the world to improve our capacity to 
collectively defend against and respond to cyber threats from authoritarian states that go against 
our national interests.  
 
This strategy recognizes that robu st collaboration, particularly between the public and private 
sectors, is essential to securing cyberspace.  It also takes on the systemic challenge that too much 
of the responsibility for cybersecurity has fallen on individual users and small organization s.  By 
working in partnership with industry ; civil society ; and State, local, Tribal, and territorial 
governments, we will rebalance the responsibility for cybersecurity to be more effective and 
more equitable.  We will realign incentives to favor long -term investments in security, resilience, 
and promising new technologies.  We will collaborate with our allies and partners to strengthen 
norms of responsible state behavior, hold countries accountable for irresponsible behavior in 
cyberspace, and disrupt the  networks of criminals behind dangerous cyberattacks around the 
globe.  And we will work with  the Congress to provide the resources and tools necessary to 
ensure effective cybersecurity practices are implemented across our most critical infrastructure.  
 
As I have often said, our world is at an inflection point.  That includes our digital world.  The 
steps we take and choices we make today will determine the direction of our world for decades  
to come.  This is particularly true as we develop and enforce rule s and norms for conduct in 
cyberspace.  We must ensure the Internet remains open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and 
secure —anchored in universal values that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.  
Digital connectivity should be a tool that  uplifts and empowers people everywhere, not one used 
for repression and coercion.  As this strategy details, the United States is prepared to meet this 
challenge from a position of strength, leading in lockstep with our closest allies and working 
with par tners everywhere who share our vision for a brighter digital future.  
 
J    
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
INTRODUCTION  ............................................................................................................................... 1 
PILLAR ONE | DEFEND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE  ................................................................. 7 
PILLAR TWO | DISRUPT AND DISMANTLE THREAT ACTORS  .................................................... 14 
PILLAR THREE | SHAPE MARKET FORCES TO DRIVE SECURITY AND RESILIENCE  ............... 19 
PILLAR FOUR | INVEST IN A RESILIENT FUTURE  ....................................................................... 23 
PILLAR FIVE | FORGE INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS TO PURSUE SHARED GOALS  ........ 29 
IMPLEMENTATION  ........................................................................................................................ 34 
 
  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 1 INTRODUCTION  
The Internet has transformed our world.  In a single  generation, it has revolutionized the way we 
innovate, communicate,  and share information on a global scale, catalyzing unprecedented 
advancements in human prosperity, equality, and connectivity.  Upon this Internet backbone we 
have built  a flourishing digital ecosystem, combining systems and technologies with our economies, 
our societies, and ourselves.   
In doing so, the digital ecosystem has come to reflect the values of its architects and its users.  Technologies have promoted  democracy, free speech, innovation, and equ ality.  But they also have 
been misused to enable transnational repression and digital authoritarianism ; steal data and 
intellectual property ; distribute disinformation;  disrupt  critical infrastructure ; proliferate online 
harassment, exploitation, and abuse ; enable criminals and foster violent extremism ; and threaten 
peace and stability.  People and technology are increasingly  linked, further enabling the  very best, as 
well as the worst, of humanity.  
In this decisive decade, we have grand ambitions for the further values -driven development of our 
digital ecosystem
.  We are build ing a smart grid, powered by distributed renewable electricity and 
balanced with intelligent systems, that promises a bright and resilient future of energy abundance.  We envision a maturing “Internet of Things” (IoT), comprising everything from consumer g oods to 
digitized industrial controls to constellations of satellites, that will increase efficiency and safety while providing game -changing insights into our environment and economy.  We are laying the 
foundations for real -time global collaboration lever aging vast amounts of data and computing power 
that will unlock scientific discoveries and other public goods of which we cannot yet conceive.  
Achieving this vision of a prosperous, connected future will depend upon the cybersecurity and 
resilience of its underlying technologies and systems .  We have  learned hard lessons  and made 
significant  progress in the collaborative  defense of our digital ecosystem.   Every day, c yber defenders 
foil state -backed attack s and  prevent criminal plots around the world.  B ut the underlying structural 
dynamics of the  digital ecosystem frustrate their efforts .  Its components remain  prone to 
disruption, vulnerable to exploitation, and are often co- opted by malicious actors.  
We must make fundamental changes to the underlying dynamics of  the digital ecosystem , shifting  
the advantage to its defenders and perpetually frustrating the forces that would threaten it .  Our goal 
is a defensible , resilient  digital ecosystem where it is cos tlier to attack systems than defend them, 
where sensitive or private information is secure and protected, and where neither incidents nor 
errors cascade into catastrophic, systemic consequences.   In creating these conditions, we can and 
must  seize the opportunity to  instill our most cherished values, as embodied by the Declaration for 
the Future of the Internet (DFI) and by the Freedom Online Coalition.  
This strategy will position the United States and its allies and partners to build that digital ecosystem  
together, making it more easily and inherently defensible, resilient, and aligned with our values.  By 
the end of this decisive decade, we will achieve these outcomes so we can confidently take bold 
leaps into a digitally -enabled future that bene fits us all.  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  2 THE STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENT  
The United States has made significant progress toward achieving the President’s affirmative vision 
for a digitally -enabled future, but  emerging trends are creating both new opportunities for further 
advancement  and new challenges to overcome .  Malicious actors threaten our progress toward a 
digital ecosystem that is inclusive, equitable, promotes prosperity, and aligns with our democratic values.  
EMERGING TRENDS  
The world is entering a new phase of deepening digital dependencies.  Driven by emerging technologies and ever more complex and interdependent systems, dramatic shifts in the coming 
decade will unlock new possibilities for human flourishing and prosperity while also multiplying the 
systemic  risks posed by inse cure systems.  
Software and systems are growing more complex, providing value to companies and consumers but 
also increasing our collective insecurity.  Too often, we are layering new functionality and technology onto already intricate and brittle systems at the expense of security and resilience.  The 
widespread introduction of artificial intelligence systems —which can act in ways unexpected to even 
their own creators —is heightening the complexity and risk associated with many of our most 
important technological systems.  
The Internet continues to connect individuals, businesses, communities, and countries on shared 
platforms that enable scaled business solutions and international exchange.  But this accelerating 
global interconnectivity also introduces risks .  An attack on one organization, sector, or state can 
rapidly spill over to other sectors and regions, as happened during Russia’s 2017 “NotPetya” 
cyberattack on Ukraine, which spread across Europe, Asia, and the Americas,  causing billions of 
dollars in damage.  The potential cost of attacks like this will only grow as interdependencies 
increase.  
Digital technologies increasingly touch the most sensitive aspects of our lives, providing convenience, but also creating new, often unforeseen risks.  The COVID -19 pandemic has pushed 
us to live ever more deeply in a digital world.  As our lives become intertwined with video and audio streaming, wearable devices, and biometric technologies, the quantity and intimacy of personal data 
collection is growing exponenti ally.  Theft of that data is also growing rapidly, and opening up novel 
vectors for malicious actors to surveil, manipulate, and blackmail individuals.  
Next -generation interconnectivity is collapsing the boundary between the digital and physical 
worlds , and exposing some of our most essential systems to disruption.  Our factories, power grids, 
and water treatment facilities, among other essential infrastructure, are increasingly shedding old analog control systems and rapidly bringing online digital operati onal technology (OT).  Advanced 
wireless technologies, IoT, and space -based assets —including those enabling positioning, navigation, 
and timing for civilian and military uses, environmental and weather monitoring, and everyday Internet -based activities fro m banking to telemedicine —will accelerate this trend, moving many of  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  3 our essential systems online and making cyberattacks inherently more destructive and impactful to 
our daily lives.  
MALICIOUS ACTORS  
Malicious cyber activity has evolved from nuisance defacement, to espionage and intellectual property theft, to damaging attacks against critical infrastructure, to ransomware attacks and cyber -
enabled influence campaigns designed to undermine public trust in the foundation of our democracy.  Once available on ly to a small number of well -resourced countries, offensive hacking 
tools and services, including foreign commercial spyware, are now widely accessible.  These tools and services empower countries that previously lacked the ability to harm U.S. interests i n 
cyberspace and enable a growing threat from organized criminal syndicates.  
The governments of China, Russia, Iran, North Korea , and other autocratic states with revisionist 
intent are aggressively using advanced cyber capabilities to pursue objectives th at run counter to our 
interests and broadly accepted international norms.  Their reckless disregard for the rule of law and human rights in cyberspace is threatening U.S. national security and economic prosperity.  
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) now presents the broadest, most active, and most persistent 
threat to both government and private sector networks and is the only country with both the intent 
to reshape the international order and, increasingly, the economic, diplomatic, military, and 
technological power to do so.  Over the last ten years, it  has expanded cyber operations beyond 
intellectual property theft to become our most advanced strategic competitor with the capacity to 
threaten U.S. interests and dominate emerging technologies critical to  global development.  Having 
successfully harnessed the Internet as the backbone of its surveillance state and influence capabilities, the PRC is exporting its vision of digital authoritarianism, striving to shape the global 
Internet in its image and imper iling human rights beyond its borders.  
For more than two decades, the Russian government has used its cyber capabilities to destabilize its neighbors and interfere in the domestic politics of democracies around the world.  Russia remains a 
persistent cyber  threat as it refines its cyber espionage, attack, influence, and disinformation 
capabilities to coerce sovereign countries, harbor transnational criminal actors, weaken U.S. alliances and partnerships, and subvert the rules -based international system.  Li ke its 2017 “NotPetya” attack, 
Russia’s cyberattacks in support of its 2022 brutal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine have resulted in irresponsible spillover impacts onto civilian critical infrastructure in other European 
countries.  
The governments of Ira n and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) are similarly 
growing in their sophistication and willingness to conduct malicious activity in cyberspace.  Iran has used cyber capabilities to threaten U.S. allies in the Middle East and elsewhere, wh ile the DPRK 
conducts cyber activities to generate revenue through criminal enterprises, such as through the theft of cryptocurrency, ransomware, and the deployment of surreptitious information technology (IT) workers for the purposes of fueling its nuclea r ambitions.  Further maturation of these capabilities  
could have significant impacts on U.S., allied, and partner interests.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  4 The cyber operations of criminal syndicates  now represent a threat to the national security, public 
safety, and economic prosperity of the United States and its allies and partners.  Ransomware 
incidents have disrupted critical services and businesses across the country and around the world, 
from en ergy pipelines and food companies, to schools and hospitals.  Total economic losses from 
ransomware attacks continue to climb, reaching billions of U.S. dollars annually.  Criminal syndicates often operate out of states that do not cooperate with U.S. law enforcement and frequently 
encourage, harbor, or tolerate such activities.  These and other malicious cyber activities continue to 
threaten Americans across society, including disproportionately affecting those without the 
resources necessary to protect th emselves, recover , or seek recourse.  
OUR APPROACH : A PATH TO RESILIENCE IN CYBERSPACE  
Deep and enduring collaboration between stakeholders across our digital ecosystem will be the foundation upon which we make it more inherently defensible, resilient, and aligned with U.S. 
values.  This strategy seeks to build and enhance collaboration around five pillars: (1)  Defend Critical 
Infrastructure, (2)  Disrupt and Dismantle Threat Actors, (3)  Shape Market Forces to Drive Security 
and Resilience, (4)  Invest in a Re silient Future, and (5)  Forge International Partnerships to Pursue 
Shared Goals.  Each effort requires unprecedented levels of collaboration across its respective 
stakeholder communities, including the public sector, private industry, civil society, and in ternational 
allies and partners.  The pillars organizing this strategy articulate a vision of shared purpose and priorities for these communities, highlight challenges they face in achieving this vision, and identify 
strategic objectives around which to or ganize their efforts.  
To realize the vision these pillars lay out, we will make two fundamental shifts  in how the United 
States allocates roles, responsibilities, and resources in cyberspace.  In realizing these shifts, we aspire not just to improve our de fenses, but to change those underlying dynamics that currently 
contravene our interests.  
REBALANCE THE RESPONSIBILITY TO DEFEND CYBERSPACE  
The most capable and best -positioned actors in cyberspace must be better stewards of the digital 
ecosystem.  Today, e nd users bear too great a burden for mitigating cyber risks.  Individuals, small 
businesses, state and local governments,  and infrastructure operators have limited resources and 
competing priorities, yet these actors’ choices can have a significant impact on our national 
cybersecurity.  A single person’s momentary lapse in judgment, use of an outdated password, or 
errant click on a suspicious link should not have national security consequences.  Our collective 
cyber resilience cannot rely on the constant vi gilance of our smallest organizations and individual 
citizens . 
Instead, across both the public and private sectors, we must ask more of the most capable and best -
positioned actors to make our digital ecosystem secure and resilient.  In a free and interconnected 
society, protecting data and assuring the reliability of critical systems must be the responsibility of 
the owners and operators of the systems that hold our data and make our society function, as well as  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  5 of the technology providers that build and se rvice these systems.  Government’s role is to protect its 
own systems; to ensure private entities, particularly critical infrastructure, are protecting their 
systems; and to carry out core governmental functions such as engaging in diplomacy, collecting 
intelligence, imposing economic costs, enforcing the law, and, conducting disruptive actions to 
counter cyber threats.  Together, industry and government must drive effective and equitable 
collaboration to correct market failures, minimize the harms from cyb er incidents to society’s most 
vulnerable, and defend our shared digital ecosystem.  
REALIGN INCENTIVES TO FAVOR LONG -TERM INVESTMENTS  
Our economy and society must incentivize decision- making to make cyberspace more resilient and 
defensible over the long t erm.  Balancing short -term imperatives against a long -term vision will be 
no easy task.  We must defend the systems we have now, while investing in and building toward a 
future digital ecosystem that is more inherently defensible and resilient.  
This strate gy outlines how the Federal Government will use all tools available to reshape incentives 
and achieve unity of effort in a collaborative, equitable, and mutually beneficial manner.  We must 
ensure that market forces and public programs alike reward securit y and resilience, build a robust 
and diverse cyber workforce, embrace security and resilience by design, strategically coordinate research and development investments in cybersecurity, and promote the collaborative stewardship 
of our digital ecosystem.   To achieve these goals, the Federal Government will focus on points of 
leverage, where minimally invasive actions will produce the greatest gains in defensibility and 
systemic resilience.  
The Federal Government is making generational investments in renewing our infrastructure, digitizing and decarbonizing our energy systems, securing our semiconductor supply chains, 
modernizing our cryptographic technologies, and rejuvenating our foreign and domestic policy 
priorities.  The United States has an opportunity to rebalance the incentives necessary to lay a 
stronger, more resilient foundation on which to build the future of our digital ecosystem.  
BUILDING ON EXISTING POLICY  
This strategy, while laying out a new approach to our cybersecurity, builds on significant achievements already shaping our strategic environment and digital ecosystem.  In its first days, the 
Biden- Harris Administration assumed responsibility for managing  the fallout from Russia’s 
compromise of the SolarWinds Orion platform and the PRC’s compromise of servers running 
Microsoft Exchange.  The President elevated White House leadership on cybersecurity, appointing 
experienced, senior leaders in new positions at the National Security Council (NSC) and the Office 
of National Cyber Director (ONCD), and moved quickly to fold lessons learned from these and other incidents into executive actions.  
These forward -leaning efforts have laid the foundation upon which this  strategy is built.  It was 
developed alongside the National Security Strategy and National Defense Strategy by a broad  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  6 interagency team and through a months -long consultation process with the private sector and civil 
society.  It is informed by and implem ents the values of the DFI, the Freedom Online Coalition, and 
other long -standing efforts to realize a democratic vision for our digital ecosystem.  It carries 
forward the foundational direction of Executive Order (EO) 14028, “Improving the Nation’s 
Cybers ecurity,” National Security Memorandum (NSM) 5, “Improving Cybersecurity for Critical 
Infrastructure Control Systems,” NSM 8, “Improving the Cybersecurity of National Security, 
Department of Defense (DoD), and Intelligence Community Systems,” and other exe cutive actions.  
It integrates cybersecurity into the once -in-a-generation new investments made by the Bipartisan 
Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce 
Semiconductors ( CHIPS) and Science Act, and EO 140 17, “America’s Supply Chains.”  
This strategy also builds on the work of prior administrations.  It replaces the 2018 National Cyber Strategy but continues momentum on many of its priorities , including the collaborative defense of 
the digital ecosystem .  The Administration  remains committed to enhancing the security and 
resilience of U.S. space systems, including by  implement ing Space Policy Directive 5, “Cybersecurity 
Principles for Space Systems .” The Administration also continues to implement critical eff orts to 
secure next -generation technologies, including through t he National Artificial Intelligence Initiative 
and the National Strategy to Secure 5G, among other existing policies and initiatives.  
This strategy’s goals for securing Federal systems and collaborating with the private sector build on EO 13800, “Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure, ” EO 
13691, “Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing,” and EO 13636, “Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,” and fit within the framework s established by Presidential 
Policy Directive 21, “Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience ,” and Presidential Policy 
Directive 41, “United States Cyber Incident Coordination.”   It carries forward and evolves many of 
the strategic efforts originally initiated by the 2008 Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative . 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 7 PILLAR ONE | DEF END CRITICAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE  
Defending the systems and assets that constitute our critical infrastructure is vital to our national 
security, public safety, and economic prosperity.  The American people must  have confidence in the 
availability and resilience  of this infrastructure and the essential services it provides.   We aim to 
operationalize an enduring and effective model of collaborative defense that equitably distributes 
risk and responsibility, and delivers a foundational level of security and resilie nce for our digital 
ecosystem.  
Collaboration to address advanced threats will only be effective if owners and operators of critical infrastructure have cybersecurity protections in place to make it harder for adversaries to disrupt 
them.  The Administratio n has established new cybersecurity requirements in certain critical sectors.  
In other sectors, new authorities will be required to set regulations that can drive better cybersecurity practices at scale.  This Administration has conducted sector -specific engagement with industry to 
construct consistent, predictable regulatory frameworks for cybersecurity that focus on achieving 
security outcomes and enabling continuity of operations and functions, while promoting 
collaboration and innovation.  
Private secto r entities have made significant commitments to engage in collaborative defense efforts.  
The “Shields Up” campaign preceding Russia’s 2022 brutal and unprovoked war on Ukraine, to 
proactively increase preparedness and promote effective measures to combat malicious activity, is an 
example of public -private collaboration that must be scaled and repeated.  
We must build new and innovative capabilities that allow owners and operators of critical infrastructure, Federal agencies, product vendors and servi ce providers, and other stakeholders to 
effectively collaborate with each other at speed and scale.  Federal agencies that support critical infrastructure providers must enhance their own capabilities and their ability to collaborate with 
other Federal ent ities.  When incidents occur, Federal response efforts must be coordinated and 
tightly integrated with private sector and State, local, Tribal, and territorial (SLTT) partners.  
Finally, the Federal Government can better support the defense of critical infr astructure by making 
its own systems more defensible and resilient.  This Administration is committed to improving Federal cybersecurity through long -term efforts to implement a zero trust architecture strategy and 
modernize IT and OT infrastructure.  In doing so, Federal cybersecurity can be a model for critical 
infrastructure across the United States for how to successfully build and operate secure and resilient 
systems.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  8 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.1: ESTABLISH CYBERSECURITY 
REQUIREMENTS TO SUPPORT NATIONAL SECURITY AND 
PUBLIC SAFETY  
The American people must have confidence in the critical services underpinning their lives and the 
nation’s economy.   While voluntary approaches to critical infrastructure cybersecurity have produced 
meaningful improveme nts, the lack of mandatory requirements has resulted in inadequate and 
inconsistent outcomes.  Today’s marketplace insufficiently rewards —and often disadvantages —the 
owners and operators of critical infrastructure who invest in proactive measures to prevent or 
mitigate the effects of cyber incidents.  
Regulation can level the playing field, enabling healthy competition without sacrificing cybersecurity or operational resilience.  Our strategic environment requires modern and nimble regulatory 
frameworks for cybersecurity tailored for each sector’s risk profile, harmonized to reduce 
duplication, complementary to public -private collaboration, and cognizant of the cost of 
implementation.  New and updated cybersecurity regulations must be calibrated to meet the n eeds 
of national security and public safety, in addition to the security and safety of individuals, regulated entities, and their employees, customers, operations, and data.  
The Administration has made progress in this area, establishing cybersecurity requirements in key sectors such as oil and natural gas pipelines, aviation, and rail, led by the Transportation Security Administration  and water systems, led by the Environmental Protection Agency .  A collaborative 
process between industry and regulators wil l produce regulatory requirements that are operationally 
and commercially viable and will ensure the safe and resilient operation of critical infrastructure.  
The most effective and efficient regulatory frameworks will be those put in place well before a c risis, 
rather than through the imposition of emergency regulations after a crisis occurs.  
ESTABLISH CYBERSECURITY REGULATIONS TO SECURE CRITICAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE  
The Federal Government will use  existing authorities to set necessary cybersecurity requirement s in 
critical sectors.  Where Federal departments and agencies have gaps in statutory authorities to implement minimum cybersecurity requirements or mitigate related market failures, the 
Administration will work with Congress to close them.  Where states o r independent regulators have 
authorities that can be used to set cybersecurity requirements, the Administration will encourage 
them to use those authorities in a deliberate and coordinated manner.  
Regulations should be performance -based, leverage existing  cybersecurity frameworks, voluntary 
consensus standards, and guidance —including the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
(CISA )’s Cybersecurity Performance Goals and the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) Framework for Impro ving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity — and be agile enough to 
adapt as adversaries increase their capabilities and change their tactics.  In setting cybersecurity 
regulations for critical infrastructure, regulators are encouraged to drive the adoption of secure -by- 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  9 design principles, prioritize the availability of essential services, and ensure that systems are designed 
to fail safely and recover quickly.  Regulations will define minimum expected cybersecurity practices 
or outcomes, but the Administrati on encourages and will support further efforts by entities to 
exceed these requirements.  
Further, these and other critical sectors rely upon the cybersecurity and resilience of their third -party 
service providers.  Cloud -based services enable better and mo re economical cybersecurity practices 
at scale, but they are also essential to operational resilience across many critical infrastructure sectors.  The Administration will identify gaps in authorities  to drive better cybersecurity practices in the 
cloud computing industry and for other essential third- party services, and work with industry, 
Congress, and regulators to close  them.  
HARMONIZE AND STREAMLINE NEW AND EXISTING REGULATION  
Effective regulations minimize the cost and burden of compliance, enabling o rganizations to invest 
resources in building resilience and defending their systems and assets.  By leveraging existing 
international standards in a manner consistent with current policy and law, regulatory agencies can minimize the burden of unique requir ements and reduce the need for regulatory harmonization.  
Where Federal regulations are in conflict, duplicative, or overly burdensome, regulators must work together to minimize these harms.  When necessary, the United States will pursue cross -border 
regula tory harmonization to prevent cybersecurity requirements from impeding digital trade flows.  
Where feasible, regulators should work to harmonize not only regulations and rules, but also assessments and audits of regulated entities.  ONCD, in coordination w ith the Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB), will lead the Administration’s efforts on cybersecurity regulatory harmonization. The Cyber Incident Reporting Council will coordinate, deconflict, and harmonize 
Federal incident reporting requirements.  
ENABLE  REGULATED ENTITIES TO AFFORD SECURITY  
Different critical infrastructure sectors have varying capacities to absorb the costs of cybersecurity, ranging from low -margin sectors that cannot easily increase investment without intervention, to 
those where the m arginal costs of improving cybersecurity can be absorbed.  In some sectors, 
regulation may be necessary to create a level playing field so that companies are not trapped in a competition to underspend their peers on cybersecurity.  In other sectors, regula tors are encouraged 
to ensure that necessary investments in cybersecurity are incentivized through the rate -making 
process, tax structures, or other mechanisms.  In setting new cybersecurity requirements, regulators 
are encouraged to consult with regulated  entities to understand how those requirements will be 
resourced.  In seeking new regulatory authority, the Administration will work with Congress to develop regulatory frameworks that take into account the resources necessary to implement them.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  10 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.2: SCALE PUBLIC -PRIVATE 
COLLABORATION  
Defending  critical infrastructure against adversarial activity and other threats requires a model of 
cyber defense that emulates the distributed structure of the Internet.  We will realize this distributed,  
networked model by developing and strengthening collaboration between defenders through 
structured roles and responsibilities and increased connectivity enabled by the automated exchange 
of data, information, and knowledge.  Combining organizational colla boration and technology -
enabled connectivity will create a trust -based “network of networks” that builds situational 
awareness and drives collective and synchronized action among the cyber defenders that protect our 
critical infrastructure.  
CISA is the nat ional coordinator for critical infrastructure security and resilience.  In this role, CISA 
coordinates with Sector Risk Management Agencies (SRMAs) to enable the Federal Government to scale its coordination with critical infrastructure owners and operators  across the United States.  
SRMAs have day -to-day responsibility and sector -specific expertise to improve security and 
resilience within their sectors.  In turn, SRMAs support individual owners and operators in their 
respective sectors who are responsible for protecting the systems and assets they operate.  Information sharing and analysis organizations (ISAOs), sector -focused information sharing and 
analysis centers (ISACs), and similar organizations facilitate cyber defense operations across vast and comp lex sectors.  
The Federal Government will continue to enhance coordination between CISA and other SRMAs, invest in the development of SRMA capabilities, and otherwise enable SRMAs to proactively respond to the needs of critical infrastructure owners and ope rators in their sectors.  The Federal 
Government will collaborate with industry to define sector -by-sector needs and assess gaps in 
current SRMA capabilities.  Investment by the Federal Government in building out the capabilities 
of SRMAs will enable secur ity and resilience improvements across critical infrastructure.  SRMAs 
will coordinate with CISA to improve their ability to be proactive and responsive to the needs of 
their sectors.  SRMAs must also continue  to support the maturation of third- party collaboration 
mechanisms.  Building on decades of experience collaborating with ISACs and ISAOs, the Federal 
Government will work with these and other groups to develop a shared vision of how this model 
should evolve.  
Accelerating  operational collaboration will  require the use of technology solutions to share 
information and coordinate defensive efforts.  We must complement human -to-human 
collaboration efforts with machine -to-machine data sharing and security orchestration.  Realizing 
this model will enable real -time, actionable, and multi -directional sharing to drive threat response at 
machine speed.  In partnership with the private sector, CISA and SRMAs will explore technical and 
organizational mechanisms to enhance and evolve machine -to-machine sharing of dat a.  The Federal 
Government will also deepen operational and strategic collaboration with software, hardware, and managed service providers with the capability to reshape the cyber landscape in favor of greater security and resilience.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  11 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.3: INTEGRATE FEDERAL 
CYBER SECURITY  CENTERS  
The Federal Government must coordinate the authorities and capabilities of the departments and 
agencies that are collectively responsible for supporting the defense of critical infrastructure.  
Federal Cyber secur ity Centers serve as collaborative nodes that fuse together whole -of-government 
capabilities across the homeland defense, law enforcement, intelligence, diplomatic, economic, and 
military missions.  Once fully integrated, they will drive intragovernmental coo rdination and enable 
the Federal Government to effectively and decisively support non -Federal partners.  
The Administration has made progress toward this goal, establishing the Joint Cyber Defense 
Collaborative (JCDC) at CISA to integrate cyber defense plan ning and operations across the Federal 
Government and with the private sector and international partners; strengthening the capabilities of 
the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force (NCIJTF) to coordinate law enforcement and  
other  disruption actions; and revitalizing the Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center’s (CTIIC) 
role in coordinating intelligence collection, analysis, and partnerships.  
Operational collaboration models at SRMAs, such as  the Department of Energy (DOE)’s Energy 
Threat Analy sis Center (ETAC) pilot , DoD’s Defense Industrial Base Collaborative Information 
Sharing Environment  (DCISE), and the National Security Agency (NSA)’s Cybersecurity 
Collaboration Center provide opportunities to enable timely, actionable, and relevant infor mation 
sharing directly with private sector partners in their respective sectors.  
Further efforts will be required to strengthen and integrate the Federal Government’s operational capabilities and improve integration of the Federal Cyber security  Centers.  ONCD will lead the 
Administration’s efforts to enhance the integration of centers  such as these , identify gaps in 
capabilities, and develop an implementation plan to enable collaboration at speed and scale .  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.4: UPDATE FEDERAL INCIDENT  
RESPONSE PLANS  AND PROCESSES  
The private sector is capable of mitigating most cyber incidents without direct Federal assistance.  When Federal assistance is required, the Federal Government must present a unified, coordinated, 
whole -of-government response .  Organizations targeted by cyber threats must know which 
government agencies to contact for what purposes.  The Federal Government must provide clear guidance on how private sector partners can reach Federal agencies for support during cyber 
incidents and what forms of support the Federal Government may provide.  
Consistent with  Presidential Policy Directive 41, “United States Cyber Incident Coordination ,”—
which defines lead roles for the Department of Justice (DOJ), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence in threat, asset, and intelligence  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  12 response efforts, respectively —CISA will lead a process to update the subordinate National Cyber 
Incident Response Plan (NCIRP)  to strengthen processes, procedures, and systems to more fully 
realize the policy that “a call to one is a call to all.”  When any Federal agency receives a request for 
assistance, the agency will know what support the wider Federal Government can provide, how to 
contact the right Federal age ncies that can provide such support, and have access to effective 
information sharing mechanisms .  Because most Federal responses take place through field offices, 
the NCIRP will bolster coordination at the local level, taking lessons from the successes of the Joint Terrorism Task Forces.  
When incidents do occur, the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022 (CIRCIA)  will enhance our awareness and ability to respond effectively.   CIRCIA  will require 
covered entities in critical infrastructure sectors to report covered cyber incidents  to CISA  within  
hours.  These timely notifications and CISA’s rapid sharing of relevant information with DOJ and 
other  incident response stakeholders will strengthen our collective defense, improve efforts to 
identify the root causes of incidents, and inform decision- making within government on how to 
respond.   CISA will consult with SRMAs, DOJ, and other Federal agencies during the CIRCIA rule -
making and implementation process to integrate incident reporting systems and ensure real -time 
sharing and actioning of all relevant incident information.  
Following major incidents, we will ensure tha t the cybersecurity community benefits from lessons 
learned through the Cyber Safety Review Board (CSRB) .  Established by EO 14028, “Improving the 
Nation’s Cybersecurity ,” the CSRB  brings together public and private sector cybersecurity leaders  to 
review m ajor cyber incidents, conduct authoritative fact -finding, generate insights that will inform 
and guide industry remediations , and provide recommendations for improving the nation’s 
cybersecurity posture going forward . The Administration will work with Cong ress to pass legislation 
to codify the CSRB within DHS  and provide it the authorities it needs to carry out comprehensive 
reviews of significant incidents . 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1.5:  MODERNIZE FEDERAL 
DEFENSES  
The Federal Government requires secure and resilient information, communications, and 
operational technology and services to perform its duties.  In its first months, this Administration set 
a new strategic direction for Federal cybersecurity, publishing EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s 
Cybersecur ity,” which led to the release of NSM 8, “Improving the Cybersecurity of National 
Security, the Defense Department, and Intelligence Community Systems,” and the OMB Federal zero trust architecture strategy.  
Building on this momentum, the Administration wil l drive long -term efforts to defend the Federal 
enterprise and modernize Federal systems in accordance with zero trust principles that acknowledge threats must be countered both inside and outside traditional network boundaries.  By making its  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  13 own networks  more defensible and resilient, the Federal Government will be a model for private 
sector emulation.  
COLLECTIVELY DEFEND FEDERAL CIVILIAN AGENCIES  
Federal civilian executive branch (FCEB) agencies are responsible for managing and securing their 
own IT and OT systems.  With different agency structures, missions, capabilities, and resourcing, 
FCEB cybersecurity outcomes vary.  We must continue to build a model for Federal cybersecurity 
that balances the individual authorities and capabilities of agencies with  the security benefits 
achieved through a collective  approach to defense.  
We will continue to build Federal cohesion through focused action across the Federal Government.  OMB, in coordination with CISA, will develop a  plan of action to secure FCEB systems through 
collective operational defense, expanded availability of centralized shared services, and software 
supply chain risk mitigation.  These efforts  will build on prior programs and prioritize actions that 
advance a whole -of-government approach to defe nding FCEB information systems.  The software 
supply chain risk mitigation objective, developed in coordination with NIST, will build on the implementation of EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity,” including the Software Bills  
of Material (SBOM)  efforts, NIST’s Secure Software Development Framework, and related efforts 
to improve open- source software security.  
MODERNIZE FEDERAL SYSTEMS  
The Federal Government must replace or update IT and OT systems that are not defensible against sophisticated cy ber threats.  The OMB zero trust architecture strategy directs FCEB agencies to 
implement multi -factor authentication, encrypt their data, gain visibility into their entire attack 
surface, manage authorization and access, and adopt cloud security tools.  T hese and other 
cybersecurity goals cannot be achieved unless Federal IT and OT systems are modernized so they 
are capable of leveraging critical security technologies.  OMB will lead development of a multi -year 
lifecycle plan to accelerate FCEB technology modernization, prioritizing Federal efforts on eliminating legacy systems which are costly to maintain and difficult to defend.  The plan will 
identify milestones to remove all legacy systems incapable of implementing our zero trust architecture strategy w ithin a decade , or otherwise  mitigate risks to  those that cannot be replaced in 
that timeframe .  Replacing legacy  systems with more secure technology, including through 
accelerating migration to cloud- based services, will elevate the cybersecurity posture across the 
Federal Government and, in turn, improve the security and resilience of the digital services it provides to the American people . 
DEFEND NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS  
National security systems (NSS) store and process some of the Federal Government’s most sensitive data and must be secured against a wide range of cyber and physical threats, including insider threats, cyber criminals, and the most sophisticated nation- state adversaries.  The Director of the 
NSA, as the National Manager for NSS, will coordinate with OMB to develop a plan for NSS at FCEB agencies that  ensure s implementation of the enhanced cybersecurity requirements of NSM -8.  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 14 PILLAR TWO  | DISRUPT AND 
DISMANTLE THREAT ACTORS  
The United States will use all instruments of national power to disrupt and dismantle threat actors 
whose actions threaten our interests .  These efforts may integrate diplomatic, information, military 
(both kinetic and cyber), financial, intelligence, and law enforcement capabilities.  Our goal is to make malicious actors incapable of mounting sustained cyber -enabled campaigns that would 
threaten the  national security or public safety  of the United States . 
Coordinated efforts by Federal and non- Federal enti ties have proven effective in frustrating the 
malicious cyber activity of foreign government, criminal, and other threat actors. The Federal 
Government has increased its capacity to respond to cyber incidents; arrested and successfully 
prosecuted transnati onal cybercriminals and state -sponsored actors; imposed sanctions on malicious 
cyber actors, including bans on travel and denying access to money service providers; and deprived threat actors of access to digital infrastructure and victim networks.  The Fe deral Government has 
also targeted financial infrastructure used for illicit activity; established new diplomatic initiatives 
attributing disruptive, destructive, or otherwise desta bilizing cyber activities to hold actors 
accountable for their malicious be havior; and recovered billions of dollars’ worth of ill -gotten assets.  
We will build upon these successes to enable more sustained and effective disruption of adversaries.  
Our efforts will require greater collaboration by public and private sector partner s to improve 
intelligence sharing, execute disruption campaigns at scale, deny adversaries use of U.S. -based 
infrastructure, and thwart global ransomware campaigns.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2.1:  INTEGRATE FEDERAL 
DISRUPTION ACTIVITIES  
Disruption campaigns must become so sustained and targeted that  criminal cyber activity is rendered 
unprofitable and foreign government actors engaging in malicious cyber activity no longer see it as 
an effective means of achieving their goals.  DOJ and other Federal law enforcemen t agencies have 
pioneered the integrated deployment of domestic legal authorities with private industry and international allies and partners to disrupt online criminal infrastructure and resources, from taking 
down notorious botnets to seizing  cryptocurre ncy gleaned from ransomware and fraud campaigns.  
Information generated from these investigations enables other efforts, such as victim notification, issuance of cybersecurity advisories, private -sector actions, sanctions designations, diplomatic 
actions, and intelligence operations.  
The Department of Defense’s strategic approach of defending forward has helped generate insights on threat actors, identify and expose malware, and disrupt malicious activity before it could affect its 
intended targets.  Inform ed by lessons learned and the rapidly -evolving threat environment, DoD 
will develop an updated departmental cyber strategy aligned with the National Security Strategy,  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  15 National Defense Strategy, and this National Cybersecurity Strategy.  DoD’s new strategy  will clarify 
how U.S. Cyber Command and other DoD components will integrate cyberspace operations into 
their efforts to defend against state  and non- state actors capable of posing strategic -level threats to 
U.S. interests, while continuing to strengthen their integration and coordination of operations with civilian, law enforcement, and intelligence partners to disrupt malicious activity at scale.  
To increase the volume and speed of these integrated disruption campaigns, the Federal 
Government must furthe r develop technological and organizational platforms that enable 
continuous, coordinated operations.  The NCIJTF, as a multi -agency focal point for coordinating 
whole -of-government disruption campaigns, will expand  its capacity to coordinate takedown and 
disruption campaigns with greater speed, scale, and frequency.  Similarly, DoD and the Intelligence Community are committed to bringing to bear their full range of complementary authorities to  
disruption campaigns.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2.2:  ENHANCE PUBLIC -PRIVATE 
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION TO DISRUPT 
ADVERSARIES  
The private sector has  growing visibility into adversary activity.  This body of insight is often 
broader and more detailed than that of the Federal Government, due in part to the sheer scale of the private sector and its threat hunting operations, but also due to the rapid pace of innovation in 
tooling and capabilities.  Effective disruption of malicious cyber activity requires more routine 
collaboration between the private sector entities that have unique insights and capabilities and the 
Federal agencies that have the means and authorities to act.  The 2021 takedown of the Emotet 
botnet showed the potential of this collaborative approach, with Federal agencies, international allies 
and partners, and private industry cooperating to disrupt the botnet’s operations.  Given the interest of the cybersecurity community and digital infrastructure owners and operators in continuing this 
approach, w e must sustain and expand upon this model so that collaborative  disruption operations 
can be carried out on a continuous basis.  
Private sector partners are encouraged to come together and organize their efforts through one or 
more nonprofit organizations that can serve as hubs for operational collaboration with the Fe deral 
Government, such as the National Cyber -Forensics  and Training Alliance  (NCFTA) .  Threat -
specific collaboration should take the form of nimble, temporary cells, comprised of a small number of trusted operators, hosted and supported by a relevant hub.  Using virtual collaboration platforms, 
members of the cell would share information bidirectionally and work rapidly to disrupt adversaries. 
The Fede ral Government will rapidly overcome barriers to supporting and leveraging this 
collaboration model , such as security requirements and records management policy .  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  16 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2.3:  INCREASE THE SPEED AND 
SCALE OF INTELLIGENCE SHARING AND VICTIM 
NOTIF ICATION  
The timely sharing of threat intelligence between Federal and non -Federal partners enhances 
collaborative efforts to disrupt and dismantle adversaries.  Open- source cybersecurity intelligence 
and private sector intelligence providers have greatly i ncreased collective awareness of cyber threats, 
but national intelligence that only the government can collect remains invaluable.  For instance, the 
NSA Cybersecurity Collaboration Center’s national intelligence -driven engagement with industry has 
been hi ghly effective at  disrupting adversary activity  targeting the Defense Industrial Base .  Similarly, 
CISA enables persistent, multi -directional threat information sharing with the private sector through 
the JCDC and, in coordination with the FBI, uses that i nformation to accelerate victim notification 
and to reduce the impact of identified intrusions.  
The Federal Government will increase the speed and scale of cyber threat intelligence sharing to 
proactively warn cyber defenders and notify victims when the government has information that an 
organization is being actively targeted or may already be compromised.  SRMAs, in coordination 
with CISA, law enforcement agencies, and the CTIIC, will identify intelligence needs and priorities 
within their sector and de velop processes to share warnings, technical indicators, threat context, and 
other relevant information with both government and non- government partners.  These processes 
must  provide mechanisms for the private sector to provide timely feedback and their o wn threat 
intelligence to the Federal Government to improve targeting of cyber threats for disruption and 
further intelligence collection.  The Federal Government will also review declassification policies and 
processes to determine the conditions under wh ich extending additional classified access and 
expanding clearances is necessary to provide actionable intelligence to owners and operators of 
critical infrastructure.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2.4:  PREVENT ABUSE OF  
U.S. -BASED INFRASTRUCTURE  
Malicious cyber acto rs exploit U.S.- based cloud infrastructure, domain registrars, hosting and email 
providers, and other digital services to carry out criminal activity, malign influence operations, and espionage against individual victims, businesses,  governments, and other  organizations in the United 
States and abroad .  Often, t hese services are leased through foreign resellers who have multiple 
degrees of separation from their U.S. -based providers, hindering the  ability of those providers to 
address abuse complaints or res pond to legal process from U.S. authorities.  The Federal 
Government will work with cloud and other internet infrastructure  providers to quickly identify 
malicious use of U.S.- based infrastructure, share reports of malicious use with the government, make 
it easier for victims to report abuse of these systems, and make it more difficult for malicious actors to gain access to the se resources in the first place.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  17 All service providers must make reasonable attempts to secure the use of their infrastructure against 
abuse  or other criminal behavior .  The Administration will prioritize adoption and enforcement of a 
risk-based approach t o cybersecurity across Infrastructure -as-a-Service providers that addresses 
known methods and indicators of malicious activity  including through implementation of EO 
13984, “Taking Additional Steps to Address the National Emergency with Respect to Signific ant 
Malicious Cyber -Enabled Activities.”  Implementation of this order will make it more difficult for 
adversaries to abuse U.S. -based infrastructure while  safeguard ing individual privacy.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2.5:  COUNTER CYBERCRIME , 
DEFEAT RANSOMWARE  
Rans omware is a threat to national security, public safety, and economic prosperity.   Ransomware 
operators have disrupted hospitals, schools, pipeline  operations , government services, and other 
critical infrastructure and essential services .  Operating from  safe havens like Russia, Iran, and North 
Korea , ransomware actors exploit poor cybersecurity practices to take control of victim networks 
and rely on cryptocurrencies to receive extortion payments and launder their proceeds.  
Given ransomware’s impact on key critical infrastructure services, the United States will employ all 
elements of national power to counter the threat along four lines of effort: (1)  leveraging 
international cooperation to disrupt the ransomware ecosystem and isolate those countries that 
provide safe havens for criminals ; (2) investigating ransomware crimes and using law enforcement 
and other authorities to disrupt ransomware infrastructure and actors; ( 3) bolstering critical 
infrastructure resilience to withstand ransomware attacks; and ( 4) addressing the abuse of virtual 
currency to launder ransom payments . 
As ransomware is a borderless challenge requiring international cooperation, the White House  has 
convened the Counter -Ransomware Initiative (CRI) with participation from more than thirty 
countries .  The CRI has conducted global exercises to build resilience and, as of January 2023, 
launched an international counter ransomware task force, led by A ustralia, to share information 
regarding  the actors and infrastructure conducting ransomware attacks  that will support and further 
accelerate CRI member countries’ existing, often coordinated disruption efforts.  The CRI will also 
drive synchronization of policy and diplomatic efforts across its members.  
The Administration is committed to mounting disruption campaigns  and other efforts  that are  so 
sustained, coordinated, and targeted that they  render ransomware  no longer profitable.  The Joint 
Ransomware Task Force (JRTF), co -chaired by  CISA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 
will coordinate, deconflict, and synchronize existing interagency efforts to disrupt ransomware 
operations and provide  support to private sector and SLTT efforts to increas e their protections 
against ransomware.  
Our approach will also include targeting the illicit cryptocurrency exchanges on which ransomware operators rely and improving international implementation of standards for combatting virtual asset 
illicit finance.  The United States subjects financial institutions offering covered services in  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  18 cryptocurrencies to Anti -Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism 
(AML/CFT) controls, and the Department of the Treasury, the Secret Service, DOJ, the FBI, and  
private sector partners are collaborating to trace and interdict ransomware payments.  The CRI has 
gained the commitment of members to implement international AML/CFT standards, including 
know -your-customer (KYC) rules , to make it harder for ransomware ac tors to launder 
cryptocurrency proceeds from attacks .  Over the long term,  the United States will support 
implementation of international AML/CFT standards globally to mitigate the use of cryptocurrencies for illicit activities that undermine our national interest  as part of our efforts to 
implement  EO 14067, “Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets .” 
Ultimately, the most effective way to undermine the motivation of these criminal groups is to reduce 
the potential for profit.  For this reason, the Administration strongly discourages the payment of ransoms.  At the same time, victims of ransomware – whether or not they choose to pay a ransom -  
should report the incident to law enforcement and other appropriate agencies.  These reports enhance the Federal Government’s ability to provide victim support, to prevent further use of 
cryptocurrencies to evade AML/CFT controls, and to reduce the likelihood that future ransomware 
attacks will be successful. 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 19 PILLAR THREE | SHAPE MARKET 
FORCES TO DRIVE SECURITY AND RESILIENCE 
To build the secure and resilient future we want, we must shape market forces to place responsibility 
on those  within our digital ecosystem that are best positioned to reduce risk .  We will shift  the 
consequences of poor cybersecurity away from the most vulnerable, making our digital ecosystem more worthy of trust.  In this effort , we will not replace or diminish the role of the market, but 
channel market forces productively toward keeping our country resilient and secure.  Our goal is a modern digital economy that promotes practices that enhance the security and resilience of our digital ecosystem while preserving innovation and competition.  
Continued disruptions of critical infrastructure and the fts of personal data make clear that market 
forces alone have not been enough to drive broad adoption of best practices in cybersecurity and 
resilience.  In too many cases, organizations that choose not to invest in cybersecurity negatively and 
unfairly im pact those that do, often disproportionately impacting small businesses and our most 
vulnerable communities.  While market forces remain the first, best route to agile and effective 
innovation, they have not adequately mobilized industry to prioritize our core economic and national security interests.  
To address these challenges, the Administration will shape the long -term security and resilience of 
the digital ecosystem, against both today’s threats and tomorrow’s challenges.  We must hold the 
stewards of our data accountable for the protection of personal data ; drive the development of more 
secure connected devices ; and reshape laws that govern liability for data losses and harm caused by 
cybersecurity errors, software vulnerabilities, and other risks created by software and digital 
technologies.  We will use Federal purchasing power and grant -making to incentivize security .  And 
we will explore how the government can stabilize insurance markets against catastrophic risk to 
drive better cybersecurity practi ces and to provide market certainty when catastrophic events do 
occur.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3.1:  HOLD THE STEWARDS OF  
OUR DATA ACCOUNTABLE  
Securing personal data is a foundational aspect to protecting consumer privacy in a digital future.   
Data -driven technologies have transformed our economy and offer convenience for consumers.   
But the dramatic proliferation of personal information expands the threat environment and 
increases the impact of data breaches on consumers.  When organizations that have data on 
individuals fail to act as responsible stewards for this data, they externalize the costs onto everyday 
Americans.  Often, the greatest harm falls upon the vulnerable populations for whom risks to their personal data can produce disproportionate harms.
  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  20 The Administration supports legislative efforts to impose robust, clear limits on the ability to collect, 
use, transfer, and maintain personal data and provide strong protections for sensitive data like 
geolocation and health information.  This legislation should also set national requirements to secure 
personal data consistent with standards and guidelines developed by NIST.  By providing privacy 
requirements that evolve with threats, the United States can pave the way for a more secure future.  
STRATEGIC OBJE CTIVE 3.2:  DRIVE THE DEVELOPMENT OF 
SECURE IOT DEVICES  
Internet of Things (IoT) devices, including both consumer goods like fitness trackers and baby monitors, as well as industrial control systems and sensors, introduce new sources of connectivity in 
our homes and businesses.  However, many of the IoT devices deployed today are not sufficiently 
protected against cybersecurity threats.  Too often they have been deployed with inadequate default settings, can be difficult or impossible to patch or upgrade, or  come equipped with advanced —and 
sometimes unnecessary —capabilities that enable malicious cyber activities on critical physical and 
digital systems.  Recent IoT vulnerabilities have shown just how easily bad actors can exploit these 
devices to construct botnets and conduct surveillance.
 
The Administration will continue  to improve IoT cybersecurity through Federal research and 
development (R&D), procurement, and risk management efforts, as directed in the IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020.  In addition, the Administration will continue to advance 
the development of IoT security labeling programs, as directed under EO 14028, “Improving the 
Nation’s Cybersecurity.”  Through the expansion of IoT security labels, consumers will be able to 
compare th e cybersecurity protections offered by different IoT products, thus creating a market 
incentive for greater security across the entire IoT ecosystem.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3.3:  SHIFT LIABILITY FOR 
INSECURE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  
Markets impose inadeq uate costs on—and often reward—those entities that introduce vulnerable 
products or services into our digital ecosystem.  Too many vendors ignore best practices for secure development, ship products with insecure default configurations or known vulnerabili ties, and 
integrate third -party software of unvetted or unknown provenance.  Software makers are able to 
leverage their market position to fully disclaim liability by contract, further reducing their incentive 
to follow secure -by-design principles or perform pre -release testing.  Poor software security greatly 
increases systemic risk across the digital ecosystem and leave American citizens bearing the ultimate 
cost. 
We must begin to shift liability onto those entities that fail to take reasonable precautions to secure their software while recognizing that even the most advanced software security programs cannot  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  21 prevent all vulnerabilities.  Companies that make software must have the freedom to innovate, but 
they must also be held liable when they fail to liv e up to the duty of care they owe consumers, 
businesses, or critical infrastructure providers.  Responsibility must be placed on the stakeholders  
most capable of taking action to prevent bad outcomes , not on the end- users that often bear the 
consequences of insecure software nor on the open- source developer of a component that is 
integrated into a commercial product.  Doing so will drive the market to produce safer products and services  while preserving innovation and the ability of startups and other small - and medium -sized 
businesses to compete against market leaders . 
The Administration will work with Congress and the private sector to develop legislation 
establishing liability for software products and services.  Any such legislation should prevent 
manufa cturers and software publishers with market power from fully disclaiming liability by 
contract, and establish higher standards of care for software in specific high- risk scenarios.  To begin 
to shape standards of care for secure software development, the A dministration will drive the 
development of an adaptable safe harbor framework to shield from liability companies that securely 
develop and maintain their software products and services.  This safe harbor will draw from current 
best practices for secure so ftware development, such as the NIST Secure Software Development 
Framework.  It also must evolve over time, incorporating new tools for secure software development, software transparency, and vulnerability discovery.  
To further incentivize the adoption of secure software development practices, the Administration 
will encourage coordinated vulnerability disclosure across all technology types and sectors; promote the further development of SBOM s; and develop a process for identifying and mitigating the risk 
presented by unsupported software that is widely used or supports critical infrastructure.  In 
partnership with the private sector and the open- source software community, the Federal 
Government will also continue to invest in the development of secure software, including memory -
safe languages and software development techniques, frameworks, and testing tools.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3.4:  USE FEDERAL GRANTS AND 
OTHER INCENTIVES TO BUILD IN SECURITY  
Federal grant programs offer strategic opportunities to make investments in critical infrastructure 
that are designed, developed, fielded, and maintained with cybersecurity and all -hazards resilience in 
mind.  Through programs funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, 
and the CHIPS and Science Act, the United States is making once -in-a-generation investments in 
our infrastructure and the digital ecosystem that supports it.  This Administration is committed to 
making investments in a manner that increases our collective systemic  resilience.  
The Federal Government will collaborate with SLTT entities, the private sector, and other partners 
to balance cybersecurity requirements for applicants with technical assistance and other forms of 
support.  Together, we can drive investment in  critical products and services that are secure - and 
resilient -by-design, and sustain and incentivize security and resilience throughout the lifecycle of  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  22 critical infrastructure.  The Federal Government will also prioritize funding for cybersecurity 
resear ch, development, and demonstration (RD&D) programs aimed at strengthening critical 
infrastructure cybersecurity and resilience.   And, the Administration will work with Congress to 
develop other incentive mechanisms to drive better cybersecurity practices at scale.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3.5:  LEVERAGE FEDERAL 
PROCUREMENT TO IMPROVE ACCOUNTABILITY  
Contracting requirements for vendors that sell to the Federal Government have been an effective 
tool for improving cybersecurity.  EO 14028, “Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity,”  expands 
upon this approach, ensuring that contract requirements for cybersecurity are strengthened and standardize d across Federal agencies .  Continuing to pilot new concepts for setting, enforcing, and 
testing cybersecurity requirements through procurement can lead to novel and scalable approaches.  
When companies make contractual commitments to follow cybersecurity b est practices to the 
Federal Government, they must live up to them.  The Civil Cyber -Fraud Initiative (CCFI) uses DOJ  
authorities under the False Claims Act to pursue civil actions against government grantees and contractors who fail to meet cybersecurity obligations.  The CCFI will hold accountable entities or 
individuals that put U.S. information or systems at risk by knowingly providing deficient cybersecurity products or services, knowingly misrepresenting their cybersecurity practices or 
protocols, or knowingly violating obligations to monitor and report cyber incidents and breaches.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3.6:  EXPLORE A FEDERAL CYBER 
INSURANCE BACKSTOP  
When catastrophic incidents occur, it is a government responsibility to stabilize the economy and 
provide certainty in uncertain times.  In the event of a catastrophic cyber incident, the Federal Government could be called upon to stabilize the economy and aid recovery .  Structuring that 
response before a catastrophic event occurs —rather than rushi ng to develop an aid package after 
the fact —could provide certainty to markets and make the nation more resilient.  The 
Administration will assess the need for and possible structures of a Federal insurance response to 
catastrophic cyber events that would support the existing cyber insurance market.  In developing this 
assessment, the Administration will seek input from, and consult with, Congress, state regulators, and industry stakeholders . 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 23 PILLAR FOUR | INVEST IN A 
RESILIENT FUTURE  
A resilient and flouri shing digital future tomorrow begins with investments made today.  We can 
build a more secure, resilient, privacy -preserving, and equitable digital ecosystem through strategic 
investments and coordinated, collaborative action.   In doing so, the United Stat es will maintain its 
leading role as the world’s foremost innovator in secure and resilient next -generation technologies 
and infrastructure.  
Foundational elements of our digital ecosystem, like the Internet, are products of sustained and 
mutually -supporting investments by both public and private sector entities.  However, public and 
private investments in cybersecurity have long trailed the threats and challenges we face.  As we build a new generation of digital infrastructure, from next -generation telecomm unications and IoT 
to distributed energy resources, and prepare for revolutionary changes in our technology landscape brought by artificial intelligence and quantum computing, the need to address this investment gap has grown more urgent.  
The Federal Gover nment must leverage strategic public investments in innovation, R&D, and 
education to drive outcomes that are economically sustainable and serve the national interest.  We 
will leverage the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Regional Innovation Engines pr ogram, long -
standing Secure and Trustworthy Cyberspace program; new grant programs and funding opportunities established in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction Act, and CHIPS 
and Science Act; Manufacturing Institutes; and other elements of the Federal research and development enterprise . 
These investments will assure continued U.S. leadership in technology and innovation as part of a modern industrial and innovation strategy.  Decades of adversaries and malicious actors 
weaponizing our te chnology and innovation against us —to steal our intellectual property, interfere 
in or influence our electoral process, and undercut our national defenses —has demonstrated that 
leadership in innovation without security is not enough.   We will complement our efforts to out -
innovate other countries with focused, coordinated action to optimize critical and emerging 
technologies for cybersecurity as they are developed and deployed.  We will ensure that resilience is 
not a discretionary element of new technical capabilities but a commercially viable element of the 
innovation and deployment process.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.1:  SECURE THE TECHNICAL 
FOUNDATION OF THE INTERNET  
The Internet is critical to our future but retains the fundamental structure of its past .  Man y of the 
technical foundations of the digital ecosystem are inherently vulnerable.  Every time we build something new on top of this foundation, we add new vulnerabilities and increase our collective risk  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  24 exposure.  We must take steps to mitigate the most urgent of these pervasive concerns such as 
Border Gateway Protocol  vulnerabilities , unencrypted Domain Name System requests , and the slow 
adoption of IPv6.  Such a “clean- up” effort to reduce systemic risk requires identification of the 
most pressing of these security challenges, further development of effective security measures, and 
close collaboration between public and private sectors to reduce our risk exposure without 
disrupting the platforms and services built atop this infrastructure.  The Federal Government will lead by ensuring that its networks have implemented these and other security measures while 
partnering with stakeholders to develop and drive adoption of solutions that will improve the 
security of the Internet ecosystem and su pport research to understand and address reasons for slow 
adoption.  
Preserving and extending the open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet requires sustained engagement in standards development processes to instill our values and ens ure that 
technical standards produce technologies that are more secure and resilient.  As autocratic regimes seek to change the Internet and its multistakeholder foundation to enable government control, 
censorship, and surveillance, the United States and i ts foreign and private sector partners will 
implement a multi -pronged strategy to preserve technical excellence, protect our security, drive 
economic competitiveness, promote digital trade, and ensure that the “rules of the road” for 
technology standards f avor principles of transparency, openness, consensus, relevance, and 
coherence.  By supporting non- governmental Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs), the 
United States will partner with industry leaders, international allies, academic institutions, professional societies, consumer groups, and nonprofits, to secure emerging technologies, enable 
interoperability, foster global market competition, and protect our national security and economic advantage . 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.2:  REINVIGORATE FEDERAL 
RESEA RCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR CYBERSECURITY  
Through Federal efforts to prioritize research and development in defensible and resilient 
architectures and reduce vulnerabilities in underlying technologies, we can ensure that the 
technologies of tomorrow are more s ecure than those of today.  
As part of the update to the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Strategic Plan, the 
Federal Government will identify, prioritize, and catalyze the research, development, and 
demonstration (RD&D) community to proactiv ely prevent  and mitigate  cybersecurity risks in  
existing and next generation technologies.  Departments and agencies will direct RD&D projects to 
advance cyber security  and resilience  in areas such as artificial intelligence, operational technologies  
and industrial control systems , cloud infrastructure, telecommunications, encryption, system 
transparency, and data analytics  used in critical infrastructure .  These efforts will be supported by the 
Federal RD&D enterprise, including the NSF, DOE National Labora tories , and other F ederally 
funded research and development centers (FFRDCs) , and through partnerships with academia, 
manufacturers, technology companies, and owners and operators.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  25 These RD&D investments will focus on securing three families of technologie s that will prove 
decisive for U.S. leadership in the coming decade: computing -related technologies, including 
microelectronics, quantum information systems, and artificial intelligence; biotechnologies and 
biomanufacturing; and clean energy technologies .  This effort will facilitate the proactive 
identification of potential vulnerabilities, as well as the research to mitigate them.  It will also support  a larger modern industrial and innovation strategy to promote  coordinated and strategic 
innovation and c reate markets for trustworthy products and services by comprehensively leveraging 
Federal investment vehicles, Federal purchasing power, and Federal regulations.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.3:  PREPARE FOR OUR 
POST-QUANTUM FUTURE  
Strong encryption is foundational  to cybersecurity and global commerce .  It is the primary way we 
protect our data online, validate end users, authenticate signatures, and certify the accuracy of 
information.  But quantum computing has the potential to break some of the most ubiquitous 
encryption standards deployed today .  We must prioritize and accelerate investments in widespread 
replacement of hardware, software, and services that can be easily compromised b y quantum 
computers so that information is protected against future attacks . 
To balance the promotion and advancement of quantum computing against threats posed to digital 
systems, NSM 10, “Promoting United States Leadership in Quantum Computing While Miti gating 
Risks to Vulnerable Cryptographic Systems,” establishes a process for the timely transition of the country’s cryptographic systems to interoperable quantum -resistant cryptography .  The Federal 
Government will prioritize the transition of vulnerable public networks and systems to quantum -
resistant cryptography -based environments  and develop complementary mitigation strategies to 
provide cryptographic agility in the face of unknown future risks .  The private sector should follow 
the government’s model in preparing its own networks and systems for our post -quantum future.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.4:  SECURE OUR CLEAN ENERGY 
FUTURE  
Our accelerating national transition to a clean energy future is bringing online a new generation of interconnected hardware and software systems that have the potential to strengthen the resiliency, 
safety, and efficiency of the U.S. electric grid.  These technologies, including distributed energy resources, “smart” energy generation and storage devices, advanced cloud -based grid m anagement 
platforms, and transmission and distribution networks designed for high- capacity controllable loads 
are far more sophisticated, automated, and digitally interconnected than prior generations of grid systems.   
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  26 As the United States makes a generatio nal investment in new energy infrastructure, the 
Administration will seize this  strategic opportunity to build in cybersecurity proactively  through 
implementation of the Congressionally -directed National Cyber -Informed Engineering Strategy , 
rather than dev eloping a patchwork of security controls after these connected devices are widely 
deployed.  The Administration  is coordinating the work of stakeholders across the Federal 
Government, industry, and SLTT to deploy a secure, interoperable network of electric  vehicle 
chargers, zero -emission fueling infrastructure, and zero- emission transit and school buses.  DOE, 
through efforts such as the Clean Energy Cybersecurity Accelerator (CECA) and the Bipartisan 
Infrastructure Law -directed Energy Cyber Sense program,  and the National Labs  are leading the 
government’s effort to secure the clean energy grid of the future and generating security best practices that extend to other critical infrastructure sectors.   DOE will also continue to promote 
cybersecurity for electr ic distribution and distributed energy resources in partnership with industry, 
States, Federal regulators, Congress, and other agencies.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.5:  SUPPORT  DEVELOPMENT  OF A 
DIGITAL IDENTITY ECOSYSTEM  
Enhanced digital identity solutions and infrastructure can enable a more innovative, equitable, safe 
and efficient digital economy.  These solutions can support easier and more secure access to 
government benefits and services, trusted communication and so cial networks, and new possibilities 
for digital contracts and payment systems . 
Today, the lack of secure, privacy -preserving, consent -based digital identity solutions allows fraud to 
flourish, perpetuates exclusion and inequity, and adds inefficiency to o ur financial activities and daily 
life.  Identity theft is on the rise, with data breaches impacting nearly 300 million victims in 2021 and 
malicious actors fraudulently obtaining billions of dollars in COVID -19 pandemic relief funds 
intended for small businesses and individuals in need.   This malicious activity affects us all, creating 
significant losses for businesses and producing  harm ful impacts on  public benefit programs and 
those Americans who use them.  Operating independently, neither the private nor public sectors have been able to solve this problem.  
The Federal Government will encourage and enable investments in strong, verifiab le digital identity 
solutions that promote security, accessibility and interoperability, financial and social inclusion, 
consumer privacy, and economic growth.  Building on the  NIST -led digital identity research 
program authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act, t hese efforts will include strengthening the 
security of digital credentials; providing attribute and credential validation services; conducting 
foundational research; updating standards, guidelines, and governance processes to support consistent use and interoperability; and develop digital identity platforms that promote transparency 
and measurement .  Acknowledging that States are piloting mobile drivers’  licenses, we  note and 
encourage a focus on privacy, security, civil liberties, equity, accessibi lity, and interoperability .  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  27 In developing these capabilities, our digital identity policies and technologies will protect and 
enhance individual privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties; guard against unintended consequences, 
bias, and potential abuse; enable vendor choice  and voluntary use by individuals ; increase security 
and interoperability; promote inclusivity and accessibility ; and improve transparency and 
accountability in the use of technology and individuals’ data . 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4.6:  DEVELO P A NATIONAL 
STRATEGY TO STRENGTHEN OUR CYBER WORKFORCE  
Today, there are hundreds of thousands of unfilled vacancies in cybersecurity positions nationwide, 
and this gap is growing .  Both private sector and public sector employers face challenges in 
recruit ing, hiring, and retaining professionals to fill these vacancies, which negatively impacts our 
collective cybersecurity .  To address this challenge, ONCD will lead the development and oversee 
implementation of a National Cyber Workforce and Education Strategy.  
This strategy will take a comprehensive and coordinated approach to expand ing the national cyber 
workforce, improv ing its diversity, and increasing access to  cyber educational an d training pathways.   
It will address the need for cybersecurity expertise across all sectors of the economy, with a special 
focus on critical infrastructure , and will enable the American workforce to continue to innovate in 
secure and resilient next -gener ation technologies .  The strategy will strengthen and diversify the 
Federal cyber workforce, addressing the unique challenges the public sector faces in recruiting, retaining, and developing the talent and capacity needed to protect Federal data and IT 
infrastructure.  And, the strategy will recognize that cyber workforce challenges are not unique to the 
United States,  expanding upon and drawing inspiration from efforts underway in other countries.  
The strategy will build on existing efforts to develop our national cybersecurity workforce including the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), the CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service 
program, the National Centers of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity program, the Cybersecurity 
Education Traini ng and Assistance Program , and the registered apprenticeships program .  The 
strategy will also leverage ongoing workforce development  program s at NSF and other science 
agencies to augment Federal Government programs.  
It will tackle head on the lack of dive rsity in the cyber workforce.  Employers are hiring from too 
small a pool of talent and from professional networks that and are not able to draw from the full 
diversity of the country.  Women, people of color, first -generation professionals and immigrants,  
individuals with disabilities, and LGBTQI+ individuals  are among the communities which are 
underrepresented in the field.   Addressing systemic inequities and overcoming barriers that inhibit 
diversity in the cyber workforce is both a moral necessity and a strategic imperative.  
To recruit and train the next generation of cybersecurity professionals to secure our digital ecosystem will require Federal leadership and enduring partnership between public and private 
sectors.  Building and maintaining a strong cyber workforce cannot be achieved unless a 
cybersecurity career is within reach for any capable American who wishes to pursue it and every  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  28 organization with an unfilled position plays a part in training the next generation of cybersecurity 
talent . 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 29 PILLAR FIVE | FORGE 
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS TO PURSUE SHARED GOALS  
The United States seeks a world where responsible state behavior in cyberspace is expected and 
rewarded and where irresponsible behavior is isolating and costly.   To achieve this goal,  we will 
continue to engage with countries working in opposition to our larger agenda on common problems while we build a broad coalition of nations working to maintain an open, free, global, interoperable, 
reliable, and secure Internet.  
For decades, we ha ve worked through international institutions to define and advance responsible 
state behavior in cyberspace.  We have used multilateral processes such as the United Nations  (UN)  
Group of Governmental Experts and Open- Ended Working Group to develop a framework that 
includes a set of peacetime norms and confidence -building measures, which all UN member states 
have affirmed in the UN General Assembly .  We have supported the expansion of the Budapest 
Convention on Cybercrime and other global efforts to make cyberspace more secure.  We will 
continue these efforts while recognizing the need to work with partners to thwart the dark vision for 
the future of the Internet that the PRC and other autocratic governments promote.  We will do so 
by demonstrating to economies and societies the value of openness and jointly imposing 
consequences for behavior that runs counter to agreed norms of state behavior.  
To counter common threats , preserve an d reinforce global Internet freedom,  protect against  
transnational digital repression,  and build toward a shared digital ecosystem that is more inherently 
resilient and defensible, the United States will work to scale the emerging model of collaboration by  
national cybersecurity stakeholders to cooperate with the international community.  We will expand coalitions, collaboratively disrupt transnational criminals and other malicious cyber actors, build the 
capacity of our international allies and partners, r einforce the applicability of existing international 
law to state behavior in cyberspace, uphold globally accepted and voluntary norms of responsible 
state behavior in peacetime, and punish those that engage in disruptive, destructive, or destabilizing malicious cyber activity . 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 5.1:  BUILD COALITIONS TO 
COUNTER THREATS TO OUR DIGITAL ECOSYSTEM  
In April 2022, the United States and 60 countries launched the Declaration for the Future of the Internet (DFI), bringing together a broad, diverse  coalition of partners —the largest of its kind —
around a common, democratic vision for an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure 
digital future.  Through the DFI, the Freedom Online Coalition, and other partnerships and 
mechanisms, the Unit ed States is rallying like -minded countries, the international business 
community, and other stakeholders to advance our vision for the future of the Internet that  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  30 promotes secure and trusted data flows, respects privacy, promotes human rights, and enables  
progress on broader challenges.  
Through mechanisms like the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (“the Quad” ) between the United 
States, India, Japan, and Australia, the United States and its international allies and partners are 
advancing these shared goals f or cyberspace.  These include improving information sharing between 
computer emergency response teams and the development of a digital ecosystem based on shared 
values.  The Indo- Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) and the Americas Partnership  
for Economic Prosperity (APEP) create opportunities for the United States and regional governments to collaborate in setting rules of the road for the digital economy, including facilitating 
the development of technical standards, mechanisms to enable cross -border data flows that protect 
privacy while avoiding strict data localization requirements, and actions to foster supply chain 
security and resilience.  Through the U.S. -EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC), we are 
coordinating across the Atlantic to combat shared threats and demonstrate how market approaches to digital trade, technology, and innovation can improve the lives of our citizens and be a force for 
greater prosperity.   The United States is also working closely with Australia and the United K ingdom 
through the trilateral security and technology pact (“AUKUS”) to secure critical technologies , 
improve cyber coordination, and share advanced capabilities.  
Through these and other partnerships, the United States and international counterparts can advance 
common cybersecurity interests by sharing cyber threat information, exchanging model 
cybersecurity practices, comparing sector -specific expertise, driving secure -by-design principles, and 
coordinating policy and incident response activities.  Further more, multistakeholder partnerships 
and coalitions that also include private sector and civil society organizations, such as the 
Christchurch Call to Action to Eliminate Terrorist and Violent Extremist Content Online , the 
Freedom Online Coalition, and the Global Partnership for Action on Gender -Based Online 
Harassment and Abuse , are crucial to tackling systemic issues.  We will leverage these partnerships 
to enable effective operational collaboration to defend our shared digital ecosystem.  We will also support and help build, as needed, new and innovative partnerships —as in the case of the 
international Counter -Ransomware Initiative —that bring together unique collections of stakeholders 
to address new and emerging cybersecurity challenges.  
Because most mali cious cyber activity targeting the United States is carried out by actors based in 
foreign countries  or using foreign computing infrastructure , we must strengthen the mechanisms we 
have to collaborate with our allies and partners so that no adversary can e vade the rule of law.  The 
United States  will work with its allies and partners to develop new collaborative law enforcement 
mechanisms for the digital age.  For example, t he European Cybercrime Centre has  played a vital 
role in modernizing legal framework s, training law enforcement, improving attribution, collaborating 
with private sector partners, and responding to malicious cyber activities  in Europe .  To extend this 
model, we will support efforts to build effective hubs with partners in other regions .  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  31 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 5.2:  STRENGTHEN INTERNATIONAL 
PARTNER CAPACITY  
As we build a coalition to advance shared cybersecurity priorities and promote a common vision for 
the digital ecosystem, the United States will strengthen the capacity of like -minded states across the 
globe to support these goals.  We must enable our allies and partners to secure critical infrastructure networks, build effective incident detection and response capabilities, share cyber threat information, pursue diplomatic collaboration, build law enforcement capacity and effectiveness through 
operational collaboration, and support our shared interests in cyberspace by adhering to international law and reinforcing norms of responsible state behavior.  
To accomplish this goal,  the United States will marshal expertise across agencies, the public and 
private sectors, and among advanced regional partners to pursue coordinated and effective international cyber capacity -building and operational collaboration efforts .  Within the law  
enforcement community, DOJ will continue to build a more robust cybercrime cooperation paradigm through bilateral and multilateral engagement and agreements, formal and informal 
cooperation, and providing international and regional leadership to strengthe n cybercrime laws , 
policies , and operations .  DoD will continue to strengthen its military -to-military relationships to 
leverage allies ’ and partners’ unique skills and perspectives while building their capacity to contribute 
to our collective cybersecurit y posture.  The  Department of State will continue to coordinate whole -
of-government efforts to ensure Federal capacity building priorities are strategically aligned  and 
further U.S., allied, and partner interests.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 5.3:  EXPAND U.S.  ABILI TY TO 
ASSIST ALLIES AND PARTNERS  
As recent cyberattacks against Costa Rica, Albania, and Montenegro have demonstrated, allies and 
partners who fall victim to a significant cyber attack may seek support from the United States and 
allied and partner nations t o investigate, responding to, and recover from such incidents.  Providing 
this support will not only assist with partner recovery and response, but will also advance U.S. foreign policy and cybersecurity goals.  Close cooperation with an affected ally or p artner 
demonstrates solidarity in the face of adversary activity and can accelerate efforts to expose counter -
normative state behavior and impose consequences.  
The Administration  will establish policies for determining when it is in the national interest t o 
provide such support, develop mechanisms for identifying and deploying department and agency 
resources in such efforts , and, where needed, rapidly seek to remove existing financial and 
procedural barriers to provide such operational support .  As one  exam ple, the United States is 
leading a N orth A tlantic T reaty O rganization (NATO)  effort to build a virtual cyber incident  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  32 support capability that enables Allies to more effectively and efficiently support each other in 
response to significant malicious cyber activities.  
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 5.4:  BUILD COALITIONS TO 
REINFORCE GLOBAL NORMS OF RESPONSIBLE STATE 
BEHAVIOR  
Every member of the United Nations has made a political commitment to endorse peacetime norms of responsible state behavior in cyberspace that includes refraining from cyber operations that would 
intentionally damage critical infrastructure contrary to their obligations under international law.  While our adversaries know that such commitments are not self -enforcing, t he growing influence of 
this framework has led states to call out those who act contrary to it .  Increasingly, a community of 
nations has collaborated to produce coordinated statements of attribution that carry the 
simultaneous diplomatic condemnation of m any governments and strengthening the coalition 
committed to a stable cyberspace . 
The United States, as a core part of its renewed, active diplomacy, will hold irresponsible states accountable when they fail to uphold their commitments .  To effectively con strain our adversaries 
and counter malicious activities below the threshold of armed conflict, we will work with our allies and partners to pair statements of condemnation with the imposition of meaningful consequences.  
These efforts will require collabor ative use of all tools of statecraft, including diplomatic isolation, 
economic costs, counter -cyber and law enforcement operations, or legal sanctions, among others . 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 5.5:  SECURE GLOBAL SUPPLY 
CHAINS FOR INFORMATION , COMMUNICATIONS , AND 
OPERATIONAL TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  
Complex and globally interconnected supply chains produce the information, communications, and operational technology products and services that power the U.S. economy .  From raw materials and 
basic components t o finished products and services —both virtual and physical —we depend upon a 
growing network of foreign suppliers.  This dependency on critical foreign products and services 
from untrusted suppliers introduces multiple sources of systemic risk to our digita l ecosystem .  
Mitigating this risk will require long -term, strategic collaboration between public and private sectors 
at home and abroad to rebalance global supply chains and make them more transparent, secure, resilient, and trustworthy.  
Critical inputs, components, and systems must increasingly be developed at home or in close 
coordination with allies and partners who share our vision of an open, free, global, interoperable, 
reliable, and secure Internet.  Building on the National Strategy to Secure 5G, w e are working with 
our partners to develop secure , reliable, and trustworthy  supply chains  for 5G and next -generation  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  33 wireless networks including through Open R adio A ccess N etworks (Open RAN)  and collaborative 
initiatives to diversify suppliers .  Such effo rts include DoD testing of Open RAN implementations 
across multiple bases, with multi -million dollar smart warehouse and logistics projects, and National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration’s ( NTIA ) work to catalyze the development 
and adopti on of open, interoperable, and standards -based networks through the Public Wireless 
Supply Chain Innovation Fund.  Extending this model to other critical technologies will require 
long-term, strategic collaboration between public and private sectors at hom e and abroad to 
rebalance global supply chains and make them more secure, resilient, and trustworthy.  The 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law mandates “Build America, Buy America” for Federally -funded 
projects, including for digital infrastructure. Through EO 14017, “America’s Supply Chains,” the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, the Federal Government has introduced new industrial and innovation strategy tools to help restore production of critical goods to the 
United States and its close partners while securing our information technology and advanced 
manufacturing supply chains.  
The United States will work with our allies and partners, including through regional partnerships like IPEF, the Quad Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group, and the TTC, to identify and 
implement best practices in cross -border supply chain risk management and work to shift supply 
chains to flow through partner countries and trusted vendors.  This effort will prioritize 
opportunities to provide higher levels of assurance that digital technologies will function as expected 
and to attract countries to support the shared vision of an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, 
and secure Internet.  The Department of State w ill further accelerate these efforts through the new 
International Technology Security and Innovation Fund to support the creation of secure and diverse supply chains for semiconductors and telecommunications.  Finally, through implementation of EO 13873, “Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply 
Chain,”  as well as EO 14034 “Protecting Americans ’ Sensitive Data  From Foreign Adversaries ,” we 
will work to prevent unacceptable and undue risks to our national security from information and communications technology and services subject to control or influence from adversarial 
governments. 
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  
 34 IMPLEMENTATION  
Realizing the strategic objectives outlined in this strategy will require a strong focus on 
implementation.  Under the oversight  of NSC staff and in coordination with OMB, ONCD will 
coordinate implementation of this strategy .  ONCD will work with interagency partners to develop 
and publish an implementation plan to set out the Federal lines of effort necessary to implement this 
strategy.   Where implementation of this strategy requires review of existing policy or the 
development of new policy, NSC staff will lead this effort through the process described in NSM -2, 
“Renewing the National Security Council System .”   
ASSESSING EFFECTIV ENESS  
In implementing this strategy, the Federal Government will take a data- driven approach.   We will 
measure investments made, our progress toward implementation, and ultimate outcomes and effectiveness of these efforts .  ONCD, in coordination with NSC s taff, OMB, and departments and 
agencies, will assess the effectiveness of this strategy and report annually to the President, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Congress on the effectiveness of this 
strategy, associated polic y, and follow -on actions in achieving its goals . 
INCORPORATING LESSONS LEARNED  
The Federal Government will prioritize capturing lessons learned from cyber incidents and apply those lessons in the implementation of this strategy.  The CSRB completed its fir st review on the 
Log4j vulnerability in summer 2022, during which the CSRB compiled an authoritative account of 
what happened, from the discovery of the vulnerability to the progression of the largest -scale cyber 
incident response in history .  The CSRB als o provided industry, Federal agencies, and the software 
development community with clear, actionable recommendations based on what the review  
discovered, so that the community can be better protected going forward.  
When the CSRB concludes its reviews, the Federal Government will address its recommendations by improving its own operations through executive action where possible, and will work with 
Congress to enhance authorities, as necessary.   Federal agencies also will promote and amplify CSRB 
recommendati ons that are directed to network defenders in the private sector.  Beyond the CSRB, a 
broader national effort to learn from cyber incidents is required.  Regulators are encouraged to build incident review processes into their regulatory frameworks .  CISA a nd law enforcement agencies are 
also encouraged to build processes to routinely extract lessons learned from their investigations and incident response activities .  Private companies are likewise encouraged to undertake these reviews 
and share findings from their efforts to inform implementation of this strategy . 
MAKING THE INVESTMENT  
Maintaining an open, free, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet and building a more 
defensible and resilient digital ecosystem will require generational investments by the Federal 
Government, allies and partners, and by the private sector .  Many Federal actions contained in this 
strategy are intended to increase private sector investment in security, resilience, improved 
collaboration, and res earch and development .  For Federal agencies to support their private sector  
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY  35 partners and increase their capacity to carry out essential Federal missions, targeted investment will 
be required.  To guide this investment, ONCD and OMB will jointly issue annu al guidance on 
cybersecurity budget priorities to departments and agencies to further the Administration’s strategic approach.  ONCD will work with OMB to ensure alignment of department and agency budget 
proposals to achieve the goals set out in this strat egy.  The Administration will work with Congress 
to fund cybersecurity activities to keep pace with the speed of change inherent within the cyber 
ecosystem . 