PDF Content from https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/nipp-ssp-communications-2015-508.pdf:
Communications
Sector-Specific Plan
An Annex to the NIPP 2013
2015Table of Contents
Letter from the Council Chairs ................................................................................................................................. iii
Executive Summary ................................................................................................................................................... iv
1. Introduction ............................................................................................................................................................ 1
2. Sector Overview ..................................................................................................................................................... 3
2.1 Sector Risks ............................................................................................................................................7
2.2 Critical Infrastructure Partners .............................................................................................................. 10
3. Vision, Goals, and Priorities ................................................................................................................................. 13
4. Achieving Sector Goals ........................................................................................................................................ 16
4.1 Risk Management ................................................................................................................................. 16
4.2 Research & Development ..................................................................................................................... 22
4.3 Critical Infrastructure and National Preparedness ................................................................................ 22
5. Measuring Effectiveness ...................................................................................................................................... 25
5.1 Sector Objectives ...................................................................................................................................... 25
5.2 Measurement Approach ............................................................................................................................ 26
Appendix A: List of Acronyms and Abbreviations .................................................................................................. 30
Figures
2-1: Communications Sector Architecture Model ..........................................................................................5
2-2: Communications Sector Partnership Model ......................................................................................... 11
4-1: Communications Sector’s Risk Assessment History ............................................................................ 17
4-2: Communications Sector Approach to Risk Reduction ......................................................................... 18
4-3: NIPP 2013 Critical Infrastructure Risk Management Framework ........................................................ 19
Tables
3-1: Communications Sector Goals and Priorities ....................................................................................... 14
3-2: Communications Joint Sector Priorities Aligned to Joint National Priorities and NIPP 2013 Goals ... 15
4-1: Communications Sector Critical Dependencies and Mitigations for Dependencies ............................. 21
5-1: Communications Sector Priorities and Objectives ................................................................................ 26
5-2: Communications Sector Priorities and Objectives aligned to the NIPP 2013 Calls to Action ............. 29
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 iiLETTFERRO TMH CEO UNCCIHLA IRS
ThDee parotfmH eonmte lSaencdud reistiytg hnCieosdm municSaetcitoonrs-P Slpa(enCc SiStfPogi) uc i tdhee
sectvoorl'usnc toalrlya,be offroatrtoiti msvp ers oevceua rnirdte ys iloiveetnrhnc eee fx otyu era TrhsCe.S SP
deschroitwbh eCeso _mmuniSceacmttaionoran rgsie saskn csdo ntrtinoba uttieosn ailn frcarsittriuccatlu re
secuarnirdte ys ilaisse efontrc tiehnP, r esiPdoelnDiticiryae l2c 1.tA isav nea nnteotx h Nea tiIonnfarla structure
ProtePclta2in0o 1nP3 a:r tnfeorCrir nigtI infrcaaslt rSuecctuuarrnieRdt e ys il�iIePPn 0c231e)t ,h CiSsS P
taitlhosert sr agtueigdipacrn ocveii ntd heNedI P2P0 1t3ot huen ioqpueer actoinndigt iroilnsaskn dasnocfda pe
thCeo mmunicSaetcitToohsnrees. c sttorra ctleogsayel liwygi nttshh N eI P2P0 1n3a tisotnraaltt he2eg0 y1,4
JoiNnatt iPorniaolra inEtdxi eecsu,Ot rid(EveOer) 1 36I3m6p,r oCvriintIgin cfraals tCrybuercsteurcriu.ety
Thi2s0 1r5e leoafts hCeeS SsPe ravsae nsu pdtaott heoe r igpilniaasnls iun2e0 d1 A0sw. i tthhp er evpiloauns,
thCiSsS rPe preacs oelnltasb eofrfoaarmttoi tnvhgepe r ivsaetcSett oarlt;oe ct,ar li,ab natdle ,r ritorial
governnmoenngtosv;e ronrmgeanntiaazlnaF dte idoednresap;la rtamnaedgn etnstc oii deesn atniwdfyo rtko ward
shagroeadal nspd r iotrori etdicuercsie ti incfarla srtirsukc.t ure
ThCeo mmunicSaetcCitoooonrrs d iCnoautn(icCniSglC a Cn)Cd o mmunicSaetcGitooovnres r nment
CoordiCnoautn(icCniGglC jCo)i dnetvleyl tohCpeoe mdm unicSaetcgitoooanrols bs j,e catniadvc etsi,iv ni ties
thCiSsS wPh,i ccohl lercetflitevhceoetlv ye rsatlrlad tiergeifoccrtt ihsoeen c atsaow rh ole.
ThiCsS SaPl rseofl etchmteas t uroaftt hiCeoo nm municSaetcpitaoornrts n aenrtdsh pheri opg mraedsteso
addrtehesevs o lrviiosnkpg,e raatnpidon lgei,nc vyi roSnimne2cn0et1 Cs0o.,m municSaetcpitaoornrt sin nteh res
pubalnidc private sseicgtnoisrfitsce tapohrnsa et vd eu cet akseenc tocro orridsiaknn,asd tt iiromepnnr,go tvhee n
secuarnirdte ys ilciaepnacbei lities.
Int hsea mseh apruerdp tohsgaeut i tdheedas cet iaontndhs es iurp pfoortr htfe r amecwoonrckae,np pdtr so,c esses
outliintnh eNedI P2P0 1a3nE dO 1 36C3o6,m municSaetcpitaoornrts ln oeoforkrs w atrocd o ntitnhueiinrg
effotroet nsh atnhsceee c uarnirdte ys iloifoe uNnrac tei on'isn fcrraist ical
KathCroynnd ello AndOyz meln t
Chair AssiSseteaarnr, t
CommunicSaetcitSooenrcCs,to oorr diCnoautnicCnioglm munications
U.SD.e parotfmH eonmte lSaencdu rity
CaitDluirkno vich
AssiSsetcarnetOt fafirocyfIe, n frastPrruoctteucrtei on
U.SD.e parotfmH eonmte lSaencdu rity
CommunicSaetcitoonrs-PI S ap2ne0 c1if5i c iiiEXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Communications Sector is an integral component of the U.S. economy, underlying the operations of all
businesses, public safety organizations, and government. Over the last 25 years, the sector has evolved from
predominantly a provider of voice services into a diverse, competitive, and interconnected industry, using
terrestrial, satellite, and wireless transmission systems. The private sector, as owners and operators of the majority
of communications infrastructure, is the primary entity responsible for protecting sector infrastructure and assets.
Working with the Federal Government, the private sector is able to predict, anticipate, and respond to sector
outages and understand how they might affect the ability of the national leadership to communicate during times
of crisis, impact the operations of other sectors, and affect response and recovery efforts.
As such, the Communications Sector Coordinating Council (CSCC) and Communications Sector Government
Coordinating Council (CGCC) worked collaboratively to develop an update to the 2010 Communications Sector-
Specific Plan (CSSP) in accordance with the National Infrastructure Protection Plan 2013: Partnering for
Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience (NIPP 2013). In this 2015 CSSP, the CSCC and CGCC developed
joint goals that the sector will pursue to guide the mission over the next four years: (1) Protect and enhance the
overall physical and logical health of communications; (2) Rapidly reconstitute critical communications services
in the event of disruption and mitigate cascading effects; and (3) Improve the sector’s national security and
emergency preparedness (NS/EP) posture with Federal, State, local, tribal, international, and private sector
entities to reduce risk. To achieve these goals, the sector developed associated priorities to focus their efforts. The
graphic below shows how the sector goals align to the joint sector priorities.
Table ES-1: Communications Sector Goals and Priorities
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 ivThis updated CSSP will guide security and resilience efforts, inform partner decisions, and improve risk
management practices over the next four years. As a part of this 2015 CSSP, the CSCC and CGCC have identified
sector-specific risks and interdependencies. Consistent with the NIPP 2013 Critical Infrastructure Risk
Management Framework, the Communications Sector’s approach to network defense prioritizes assets, assesses
threats and vulnerabilities, and then uses the findings of these assessments as criteria to focus resources on
defenses that yield optimal protection. The Communications Sector regularly undertakes risk assessments to
address evolving issues by topic, segment, or threat. Across the Communications Sector, industry and government
partners collaborate to conduct risk assessments as an ongoing activity, with the intent to maintain a national
communications infrastructure that is resilient, diverse, redundant, and recoverable.
The vision, goals, and joint sector priorities contained in the 2015 CSSP demonstrate how the sector is
contributing towards the advancement of the NIPP 2013 Goals and the Joint National Priorities established by the
NIPP Call to Action (CtA) #1, which advocated for the development of joint national priorities to inform resource
allocation and decision-making on the part of critical infrastructure partners.
In order to implement this CSSP, the Communications Sector partners developed a set of broad objectives aligned
to the four sector priorities that will contribute to sector goals and priorities. Details on the sector’s objectives are
in Chapter Five, Measuring Effectiveness, which includes both voluntary partnership activities and tasks the
sector may pursue on its own volition.
The Communications Sector will leverage the NIPP 2013 CtA categories to track and report, on a quarterly basis,
the progress of sector activities to DHS’s Office of Infrastructure Protection. The NIPP 2013’s CtA guides efforts
to achieve national goals and, therefore, to enhance national critical infrastructure security and resilience. The
NIPP 2013 CtA will serve as a roadmap to ensure continuous improvement of security and resilience through the
Communications Sector’s efforts.
This update also reflects the maturation of the Communications Sector partnerships and the progress made to
address the evolving risk, operating, and policy environments.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 v1. INTRODUCTION
This Communications Sector-Specific Plan (CSSP) is an update to the sector’s 2010 Sector-Specific Plan (SSP) in
accordance with the National Infrastructure Protection Plan 2013: Partnering for Critical Infrastructure Security
and Resilience (NIPP 2013).1 The NIPP 2013 establishes a set of broad critical infrastructure security and
resilience national goals, which the sector-specific priorities and planned activities outlined in this CSSP support.
This update tailors the strategic guidance provided in the NIPP 2013 to the unique operating conditions and risk
landscape of the Communications Sector.
Since 2010, the Communications Sector has evolved rapidly in multiple areas, including mobile broadband, cloud
computing, the Internet of Things (IoT), and software-defined networks (SDNs). Voice and data networks have
continued to converge, and mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablet computers, have been widely adopted,
creating enormous demand for mobile broadband communications. These changes increase the requirement for
improved sector security and resilience, which the CSSP seeks to address by setting the strategic direction for
voluntary, collaborative efforts to improve sector security and resilience over the next four years. It describes how
the Communications Sector manages risks and contributes to national critical infrastructure security and
resilience, as set forth in Presidential Policy Directive 21: Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience. As such,
the sector strategy supports the NIPP 2013 national goals and strategy, the 2014 Joint National Priorities,
implementation of Executive Order 13636: Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, and the NIPP 2013
Call to Action (CtA) #2.2
This update also answers NIPP 2013 CtA #2, which calls upon each sector to update its SSP every four years to
reflect joint priorities, address sector reliance on lifeline functions, describe national preparedness efforts, outline
cybersecurity efforts, and develop metrics to measure progress. The Vision, Goals, and Priorities Section of this
document illustrates how the Communications Sector’s priorities support both the NIPP 2013 national goals and
Joint National Priorities. Public and private-sector representatives have identified shared goals and priorities, and
a supporting set of collaborative activities they plan to pursue during the next four years.
This CSSP includes:
 Sector Overview—Provides a concise profile of the sector’s evolution since 2010, characteristics, risk
profile, and key public and private-sector partners and venues.
 Vision, Goals, and Priorities—Presents the sector’s mission and updates goals and priorities for
communications security and resilience over the next four years.
 Achieving Sector Goals—Describes mechanisms to achieve sector goals, including ongoing and planned
partnership programs, activities, and resources that support the sector’s current risk management
1 Communications Sector-Specific Plan: An Annex to the National Infrastructure Protection Plan, 2010 is available at the
following URL: http://www.dhs.gov/publication/nipp-ssp-communications-2010. Accessed December 2, 2015.
2 The NIPP 2013’s CtA guides the private sector and Federal, State, local, tribal, territorial, and regional government efforts
in implementing the NIPP, which has 12 actions assigned to three categories.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 1approach; research and development (R&D) priorities; and how the sector supports national preparedness
through incident response and recovery.
 Measuring Effectiveness—Provides the list of initiatives that the CSCC and CGCC will undertake in
partnership to address sector priorities, as well as the approach the sector will use to measure the
effectiveness of individual activities.
The CSSP provides targets for Communications Sector public and private partner collaboration, specifically
among government agencies, private industry, and DHS’s Office of Cybersecurity and Communications (CS&C),
which serves as the Sector-Specific Agency (SSA) for the Communications Sector. Partners have a clear and
shared interest in ensuring the security and resilience of critical sector assets, and this plan represents the
voluntary, collaborative activities that have the greatest effect on reducing sector risk and building resilience.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 22. SECTOR OVERVIEW
The Communications Sector provides products and services that support the efficient operation of today’s global
information-based society.3 In 2014, information and communication technology (ICT) companies accounted for
3.5 million jobs, contributing about $1 trillion to the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) through both direct and
indirect contributions, which is about 7 percent of the U.S. economy.4 Many of these products and services are
foundational or necessary for the operations and services provided by other critical infrastructure sectors. The
sector recognizes that other sectors consider its services to be critical, and its practices reflect this understanding.
The nature of communication networks involve both physical infrastructure (buildings, switches, towers,
antennas, etc.) and cyber infrastructure (routing and switching software, operational support systems, user
applications, etc.), representing a holistic challenge to address the entire physical-cyber infrastructure. The result
has been the establishment of a robust, resilient network infrastructure that successfully provides services
globally.
Virtually every element of modern life is now dependent on cyber infrastructure. As a result, our Nation’s
economic and national security relies on the security of the assets and operations of critical communications
infrastructure. Past terrorist attacks and catastrophic natural disasters emphasized the need to focus our national
attention on protecting the Nation’s critical infrastructure and making it more resilient. Moving forward, it is
essential that public and private sector partners adopt a coordinated approach to achieve joint goals for our
communications infrastructure.
The public sector—Federal, State, and local governments—and the private sector share the responsibility for
securing the Nation’s critical communications infrastructure. Sector partners benefit from complementary skill
sets, expertise, and individual resources to meet their shared responsibility for addressing all-hazard threats.
The individuals and organizations that contribute to the planning of initiatives to keep the Nation’s
communication networks resilient enough to withstand natural and manmade disasters, as well as those
responsible for responding and restoring those networks post-event, have partnered to update this CSSP from its
2010 version. These include representatives from the five segments of the Communications Sector: broadcasting,
cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline.
Key Sector Characteristics
Communication networks enable people around the world to contact one another, access information instantly,
and communicate from remote areas. This involves creating a link between a sender (including voice signals) and
one or more recipients using technology (e.g., a telephone system or the Internet) to transmit information from
one location to another. Technologies are changing at a rapid pace, increasing the number of products, services,
3 U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis is available at the following URL:
http://bea.gov/iTable/iTable.cfm?ReqID=51&step=1#reqid=51&step=2&isuri=1. Accessed December 2, 2015.
4 Telecommunications Industry Association’s TIA2014 Playbook is available at the following URL:
http://www.tiaonline.org/PDF/9603_FinalProof_LoRes.pdf. Accessed December 2, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 3service providers, and communication options. The national communications architecture is a complex collection
of networks that are owned and operated by individual service providers, consisting of three main functional
areas: Services and Applications, Core Network, and the five segments’ Access Networks.
Today, using more means than ever before, enormous volumes of information move at ever-faster speeds among
an ever-increasing number of users and machines. Over the past 25 years, the public switched telephone network
(PSTN) in the United States has evolved from a largely mechanical, circuit-switched network carrying voice
telephone calls, which a few U.S. companies owned and operated, to a highly complex and integrated system of
computer-controlled, packet-based networks carrying voice, data, and video, which thousands of domestic and
international organizations own. Reliance on established circuit-based switching for communication is rapidly
waning, and most of the traffic running over the public communication networks in 2014 was transmitted as data
packets. The Internet is not the only part of the public network (PN) experiencing rapid growth. According to
Cisco Systems, Inc., traffic from mobile data in 2013 was nearly 18 times the size of the entire Internet in 2000.5
5 The Cisco® Visual Networking Index Global Mobile Data Traffic Forecast Update is available at the following URL:
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/visual-networking-index-vni/white_paper_c11-
520862.html. Accessed December 2, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 4Figure 2-1: Communications Sector Architecture Model6
As more devices connect to public communication networks, service firms can provide more types of device-
specific services over those networks. The Communications Sector architecture model in Figure 2-1 serves as a
representation of the collective infrastructure, which illustrates at least five major ways to access the numerous
voice, video, and data services on the core network: broadcasting, cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline networks.
Since 2010, the Communications Sector has continued to make rapid, technological advances in multiple areas,
including network infrastructure, mobile broadband, cloud computing, IoT, Internet Protocol (IP) networks, Over-
the-Top services (e.g., Voice over IP (VoIP)), and even SDNs. Network convergence has evolved alongside
technology, with all forms of broadband infrastructure investments occurring across the United States as service
providers have worked to meet individual and enterprise requirements for faster communication services.
Smartphones, tablet computers, and their associated mobile applications emerged as rapidly adopted key user
technologies in the Communications Sector, and their explosive growth has generated enormous demand for
mobile broadband. Enterprises have since embraced cloud computing with Platform as a Service, Infrastructure as
a Service, and Software as a Service enjoying widespread adoption.7 Concurrently, the national policy
environment has also evolved with the addition of Executive Order (EO) 13618, Assignment of National Security
6 This architecture model depicts examples of network access methods and services provided. It is not intended to be
comprehensive, exact or authoritative (Source: 2012 National Sector Risk Assessment for Communications (NSRA)).
7 National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) Report to the President on Cloud Computing, May
15, 2012
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 5and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions and EO 13636, Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity.
Key Sector Components
The Communications Sector represents a large number of facilities and sites that differ based on function, size,
operating principles, and security risks. The sector includes five component areas that have similar functions and
operations, thereby representing the access segments. The following section provides a brief overview of the five
access segments for each component area.
Broadcast
Broadcasting systems consist of free and subscription based, over-the-air radio and
television (TV) stations that offer analog and digital audio and video programming
services and data services. Broadcasting has been the principal means of providing
emergency alert services to the public for six decades. Broadcasting systems operate in
three frequency bands: medium frequency (MF (AM radio)), very high frequency (VHF
(FM radio and TV)), and ultra-high frequency (UHF (TV)). The full transition to digital
TV and ongoing transition to digital radio provide broadcast stations with enhanced
capabilities, including the ability to multicast multiple programs on a single channel.
Radio and TV stations also stream broadcast and additional programming content over
the Internet.
Cable
The cable industry is composed of more than 7,700 cable systems that offer analog and
digital video programming services, digital telephone service, and high-speed broadband
services. The cable systems use a mixture of fiber and coaxial cable to provide
bidirectional signal paths to the customer. This hybrid fiber/coaxial (HFC) network
architecture effectively segments the cable system into a number of parallel distribution
networks. The HFC architecture is beneficial to business and residential customers
because it improves signal performance and increases available bandwidth and overall
network reliability. Although network designs vary, the HFC architecture in any
particular community is typically based on a three-level topology, which includes a
headend, one or more distribution hub(s), and multiple fiber nodes.
Satellite
This is a platform launched into orbit to relay voice, video, or data signals as part of a
telecommunications network. Earth station antennas transmit signals to the satellite,
which are amplified and sent back to Earth for reception by other earth station antennas.
Satellites use a combination of terrestrial and space components to perform many types
of functions, such as the bidirectional transmission of voice, video, and data services;
data collection; event detection; timing; and navigation.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 6Wireless
Wireless refers to telecommunication in which electromagnetic waves (rather than some
form of wire) carry the signal over part of or the entire communication path. Wireless
technologies consist of cellular phones, wireless hot spots (WiFi), personal
communication services, high-frequency radio, unlicensed wireless, and other
commercial and private radio services to provide communication services.
Wireline
Consists of circuit- and packet-switched networks via copper, fiber, and coaxial transport
media. It includes private enterprise data and telephony networks, the core backbone of
the Internet, and the PSTN.
2.1 Sector Risks
In 2012, the Communications Sector undertook a comprehensive, all-hazards assessment of the current physical,
cyber, and human risks faced by the domestic communication networks at the local, regional, and national levels.8
All these risks remain of concern today. Physical risks involve the impact of natural, such as Category 4 or 5
hurricanes, major urban floods, major earthquakes, and solar super storms, or manmade events, such as terrorist
attacks, intentional electromagnetic interference and explosives, and accidents, such as submarine cable damage,
on communications infrastructure. Cyber risks involve threats from both malicious and non-malicious actors,
including resource exhaustion, system alteration, or damage to the white space frequency database (e.g., unused
spectrum). Human risks involve the impact of humans on network confidentiality, integrity, and availability
across multiple categories: access of communications personnel to a disaster area, security of personnel and
equipment during response and recovery, employee security awareness, and internal and external threats.
Depending on the specific physical, cyber, or human threat, the risk posed may be minimal or elevated in its
impact on local, regional, or national communications.
Communications Sector Risk Profile
Natural Disasters and Extreme Weather
Hurricanes, wildfires, and other extreme weather events have increased in frequency and
severity in recent years, impacting local and regional communications infrastructure in
the United States. On a national level, a geomagnetic solar super storm, such as the one
in July 2012, could cause an electromagnetic pulse that collapses electric power grids
and triggers a long-term outage (LTO) in national communications.9
8 These risks were assessed in the 2012 NSRA.
9 Information about the July 2012 solar super storm is available at the following URL: http://science.nasa.gov/science-
news/science-at-nasa/2014/23jul_superstorm/. Accessed December 2, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 7Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
The Communications Sector depends on suppliers for the products and services that are
necessary to deliver communication services to users. In particular, the sector is
dependent on reliable hardware and software. This is an area the sector continues to
scrutinize closely.
Global Political and Social Implications
The Communications Sector is global with significant numbers of partners, suppliers,
customers, employees, and facilities located outside the United States. As a result, the
sector monitors geopolitical unrest, economic conditions, and other factors as they may
affect distribution patterns, foreign operations, employees, or partners.
Cyber Vulnerabilities
The Internet is a complex ecosystem comprising suppliers, networks, and service
providers, all of whom are part of the Communications Sector. Any vulnerabilities or
threats to functions and capabilities outside of the Communications Sector (e.g.,
hardware, software, and operating systems) have the potential to affect network provider
services and, therefore, require ongoing attention.
Emerging Sector Risks
A number of long-range strategic threats, as noted in DHS’s 2014 Quadrennial Homeland Security Review
(QHSR), are emerging and include pandemic diseases, climate change, and aging critical infrastructure.10 More
relevant emerging risks include risks to the Global Positioning System (GPS), risks associated with the IoT, and
risks associated with the need for rapid mobilization and coordination of critical commercial sector assets in
response to a large-scale incident of national security concern.11,12,13
Cross-Sector Dependencies and Interdependencies
The NIPP 2013 identifies lifeline functions—which include communications, energy, transportation, and
water14—and resources essential to the operations of most critical infrastructure partners and communities.
Identifying lifeline functions, specifically those that are interdependent with other sectors, can support
preparedness planning and capability development. Communication dependencies include:
10 2014 Quadrennial Homeland Security Review, June 18, 2014, pgs. 22-23
11 U.S. Government Accountability Office Report, GPS Disruptions: Efforts to Assess Risks to Critical Infrastructure and
Coordinate Agency Actions Should Be Enhanced, November 2013
12 NSTAC Report to the President on Information and Communications Technology Mobilization, November 19, 2014
13 NSTAC Report to the President on the Internet of Things, November 19, 2014
14 NIPP 2013, Partnering for Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience, page 17
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 8Lifeline Functions: Energy, Transportation, and Water
Communication networks—including customer premise equipment (CPE), central office switching,
transmission equipment, and routing and Domain Name System (DNS) infrastructure in Internet
points of presence (PoPs) and datacenters—require electric power to operate. While backup
generation provides power needed to operate in the short term or safely shutdown a facility, an
LTO would significantly disrupt operations.
The Communications Sector generally relies on diesel fuel to power its backup generators and the
Transportation Sector to deliver those fuels.
In some cases, water sources are also necessary for cooling and other processes. Service providers
generally have alternate sources of water available for short-term service interruptions; an LTO
could result in a significant shutdown.
Other Communications Sector Dependencies: Supply Chain, Information Technology (IT), GPS
The Communications Sector also has second-tier dependencies in the Information Technology Sector and
Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Sector.
The Communications Sector relies on the IT Sector to deliver reliable products (e.g., routers,
switches, software, operating systems, etc.) and services (such as domain name resolution) in order
to provide end-to-end communication services for customers.
The primary use of GPS, as part of the DIB sector, in the commercial communications industry is
in support of precision timing and network synchronization functions. The Communications Sector
does leverage alternate precision timing capabilities for core functions, but the ubiquitous coverage
of GPS permits greater flexibility for end users.
While the Communications Sector has few significant dependencies, other critical infrastructure sectors are
dependent on the Communications Sector. As such, the Communications Sector is one of the few sectors that can
affect all other sectors. At a minimum, each sector depends on services from the Communications Sector to
support its operations and associated day-to-day communication needs for corporate and organizational networks
and services (e.g., Internet connectivity, voice services, and video teleconferencing capabilities). Some sectors
have even more significant dependencies on the Communications Sector beyond these routine operations. Table
2-1 provides a high-level overview of how other sectors are critically dependent on the Communications Sector.
Table 2-1: Sectors Dependent on the Communications Sector
Sector Key Dependencies
Emergency Services Relies on networks for emergency operations center connectivity, interconnecting
land mobile radio networks, backhauling traffic, operating public alert and warning
systems, and receiving emergency 911 calls.
Energy May rely on communications infrastructure to aid in monitoring and controlling
operations and electric transmission.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 9Sector Key Dependencies
Financial Services Relies on communications for transmitting transactions and financial market
operations.
IT Sector Depends on Communications Sector networks for delivering and distributing
applications and services.
Transportation May rely on communications infrastructure to aid in monitoring and controlling
transportation infrastructure (e.g., signals, mass transit, air traffic control, and vehicle
traffic monitoring).
The Communications Sector recognizes the importance of addressing the dependencies of other sectors on its
services. In terms of the responsibility for risk, the Communications Sector typically considers other critical
infrastructure sectors to be customers. As customers, these other sectors need to be aware of their responsibility to
ensure the resiliency of their operations through redundancy and diversity of service. To this end,
Communications Sector industry and government partners are committed to working with other critical
infrastructure sectors to address cross-sector dependencies through customer relationships as well as through other
SSAs and sector partnerships.
2.2 Critical Infrastructure Partners
Voluntary collaboration between private sector and government stakeholders remains the primary mechanism for
advancing collective action toward Communications Sector security and resilience. Like all 16 critical
infrastructure sectors, the Communications Sector operates under the NIPP Partnership Model, which encourages
participation from across the sector. The success of the model depends on leveraging the full spectrum of
capabilities, expertise, and experience across the critical infrastructure community and associated stakeholders.
This requires efficient sharing of actionable and relevant information among partners to build situational
awareness and enable effective risk-informed decision-making.
The NIPP Partnership Model employs public and private sector councils and uses the Critical Infrastructure
Partnership Advisory Council (CIPAC) framework to facilitate collaboration between government and private
sector partners. The succeeding paragraphs below describe the key partnerships that support the implementation
of the Communications Sector critical infrastructure partnership model.
Partnership councils meet to exchange ideas and lessons learned; facilitate sector-level planning and resource
allocation; establish effective coordinating structures; and develop security and resilience tools, guidelines,
products, and programs. Functioning as the SSA, DHS’s CS&C leads sector coordination, serves as the primary
federal interface for sector-specific security and resilience efforts, promotes sector-wide information sharing, and
supports implementation of the NIPP 2013 within the Communications Sector.
The CSCC is a self-organized, self-run, and self-governed private sector council consisting of owners and
operators and their representatives from each of the five industry segments. The CSCC provides a forum for
members of the private sector to discuss infrastructure security and resilience issues among themselves or to
communicate directly with the CGCC and SSA. The CSCC enables communication system and infrastructure
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 10owners and operators to coordinate on a wide range of sector-specific strategies, policies, activities, and issues
related to the security and resilience of the sector. Communications owners and operators are vital contributors to
CSCC implementation-level initiatives. A current list of the CSCC members is available on the CSCC Webpage.
The CGCC consists of representatives from across the Federal, State, and local governments. These public sector
participants represent departments and agencies involved in various aspects of ICT policy, protection, and
implementation. The CGCC helps to coordinate the implementation of the NIPP and corresponding CSSP across
government and between government and the private sector. The CGCC works closely with the CSCC to plan,
implement, and execute sector-wide resilience and security programs for the Nation’s Communications Sector. A
current list of CGCC members is available on the Communications Sector CIPAC Charters and Membership
Webpage.
In addition to NIPP-related activities associated with the CSCC and CGCC, the Communications Sector
participates in a number of public-private advisory and operational forums, ranging from chief executive officer
(CEO)-level engagement on policy issues to incident response activities associated with operational activities.
Figure 2-2 outlines the segmentation of these NIPP-related activities.
Figure 2-2: Communications Sector Partnership Model
Through the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC), industry helps to
inform government decisions about NS/EP communications. NSTAC comprises up to 30 CEOs from major
telecommunication companies, network service providers, IT firms, financial firms, and aerospace companies.
Through a deliberative process, NSTAC provides the President with recommendations intended to ensure vital
telecommunication connections are operational during any event or crisis and to help the Federal Government
maintain a reliable, secure, and resilient national communications posture. Key areas of NSTAC focus include
strengthening national security, enhancing cybersecurity, maintaining the global communications infrastructure,
ensuring communications for disaster response, and addressing critical infrastructure interdependencies.
In January 2000, the White House designated the National Coordinating Center for Communications(NCC)as
the Information Sharing and Analysis Center (ISAC) for telecommunications in accordance with Presidential
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 11Decision Directive63. The Communications Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Comm-ISAC), consisting
of 66 membercompanies, has facilitated the exchange of information among industry and government
participants regarding vulnerabilities, threats, intrusions, and anomalies affecting the telecommunications
infrastructure. The Comm-ISACsupports and facilitates the information-sharing environment to ensure critical
infrastructuresecurity and resilience through regular meetings of critical infrastructure partners across
government and with private industry. During emergencies, daily or more frequent meetings are held with
industry and government personnel involved with the response effort. Under the new EO 13691, Promoting
Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing, the Communications Sector may (subject to applicable law) be
able to expand cybersecurity threat information sharing within the private sector and between the private sector
and government.15
Established in 1991, the Government and NSTAC Network Security Information Exchanges (NSIE)meet
bimonthly to share information and views on threats and incidents affecting the PN’s software elements,
vulnerabilities, and possible remedies. In addition, NSIE members periodically assess the risk to the PN from
electronic intrusion. The U.S. NSIE holds multilateral exchange meetings with its counterparts from the United
Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.
The Communications Sector actively engages in the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC)
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Committee (CSRIC). Through this advisory
committee, industry can recommend actions for the FCC to take to promote reliable, secure, and resilient
communication services and networks. Industry also uses this venue to identify best practices that may be useful
to support these same objectives. Individual communication enterprises can look to these and other industry best
practices as guides to improving the security of their network and facilities.16
Communication networks are global in scope, and the Nation’s communications infrastructure is linked with and
dependent on infrastructure owned and operated by foreign states and organizations. As the SSA for the
Communications Sector, CS&C engages bilaterally and internationally on both cybersecurity and communication
issues. CS&C’s Office of Emergency Communications (OEC) addresses emergency communications,
interoperability,and critical infrastructure security and resilienceissues.In striving to fulfill itsmission, OEC has
developed a strong, working relationship with Canada on NS/EP communications.
15 EO 13691:Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing, February 13, 2015, is available at the following
URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2015/02/13/executive-order-promoting-private-sector-cybersecurity-
information-shari. Accessed December 2, 2015.
16 Multiple industry best practices are available, including Carnegie Mellon University’s Capability Maturity Model
Integration CMMI®22 Measurement and Analysis Process; ISO/IEC 15939; ISO/IEC 27004; NIST SP800-55 Rev1, Draft
Practical Measurement Framework for Software Assurance and Information Security; and the FCC Website, which is
available at the following URL: https://www.fcc.gov/search/#q=best%20practices. Accessed December 2, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 123. VISION, GOALS, AND PRIORITIES
The Communications Sector’s vision acknowledges the Nation’s critical reliance on assured communications.
Accordingly, the Communications Sector will strive to ensure that the Nation’s communication networks and
systems are secure, resilient, and rapidly restored after a natural or manmade disaster. An effective
Communications Sector partnership between public and private components is essential for achieving this shared
mission of security and resilience. To guide the mission, the CSCC and CGCC developed joint goals that the
sector will pursue over the next four years: (1) Protect and enhance the overall physical and logical health of
communications; (2) Rapidly reconstitute critical communications services in the event of disruption and mitigate
cascading effects; and (3) Improve the sector’s NS/EP posture with Federal, State, local, tribal, international, and
private sector entities to reduce risk.
The Communications Sector developed priorities associated with these goals and identified a future state for each
priority towards which the sector will work over the next four years. These goals and priorities are shown in Table
3-1, while Table 3-2 shows their direct alignment to the Joint National Priorities and the NIPP 2013 Goals.
The Cyber and Physical Security priority involves the identification of communications assets, the
implementation of protection measures for those assets, the detection of threats and attacks against the assets,
appropriate and effective response to attacks, and the recovery of damaged communications functionality.
The Resilience priority involves the appropriate development, implementation, and ongoing enhancements of
processes and technologies that improve the survivability performance of communications networks, applications,
and services.
The Dependencies and Interdependencies priority involves the ongoing mapping of the Communications
Sector ecosystem; identifying intertwined vulnerabilities; and developing, implementing, and enhancing the
practical strategies to mitigate cascading consequences of attacks.
The Partnership and Engagement priority involves the challenging but rewarding work of ensuring that public
and private components, driven by differing motivating primary principles, cooperate effectively to their mutual
benefit and the overall benefit of the Communications Sector as a whole.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 13Table 3-1: Communications Sector Goals and Priorities
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 14Table 3-2: Communications Joint Sector Priorities Aligned to Joint National Priorities and NIPP 2013 Goals
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 154. ACHIEVING SECTOR GOALS
Risk management is the cornerstone of the NIPP 2013 and of the national effort to strengthen security and
resilience. It focuses on enabling owners and operators to make risk-informed decisions that best allocate limited
resources to the most effective mitigation solutions. The NIPP outlines a Risk Management Framework that
enables the critical infrastructure community to focus on those threats and hazards likely to cause harm, as well as
employs prioritized approaches designed to prevent or mitigate the effects of those incidents. The NIPP also
increases security and strengthens resilience by identifying and prioritizing actions to ensure (1) continuity of
essential functions and services during incidents and (2) support rapid response and restoration.
The CSSP provides a strategic framework for the sector’s partners to collaboratively protect the Nation’s
communications infrastructure. The basic goals of the CSSP risk management framework are:
 Resilient Infrastructure: Critical infrastructure and their communication capabilities should be able to
withstand natural or manmade hazards—with the exception of extreme events, such as an LTO—with
minimal interruption or failure.17
 Diversity: Facilities should have physically and logically diverse primary and backup communications
capabilities that do not share common points of failure.
 Redundancy: Facilities should use multiple communication capability types to sustain business
operations and eliminate single points of failure that could disrupt primary services.
 Recoverability: Plans and processes should be in place to restore operations quickly if an interruption or
failure occurs.
The Communications Sector’s goals and priorities are directly rooted in the NIPP 2013 Critical Infrastructure
Risk Management Framework. Updated goals and priorities reflect the maturation of the partnership and the
significant progress made since the 2010 CSSP. This section presents the sector’s ongoing efforts and the planned
approaches that support risk management and national preparedness, response, and recovery following an incident
that affects Communications Sector operations.
4.1 Risk Management
In the United States, Government officials and critical infrastructure owners and operators depend on the
Communications Sector to support and receive NS/EP communications, thereby ensuring that the Nation can
maintain mission essential functions during steady-state and crisis circumstances. The confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of the public communication networks are a matter of national security and not merely a matter of
17 For the 2012 NSRA, the Sector defined an LTO as an interruption of electrical power within a large enough geographical
area and for a period of time beyond the capability of backup power systems currently in use to provide for the continuing
operation of communications systems and networks (Source: National Communications System Committee of Principals,
Communications Dependency on Electric Power Working Group Report: Long-Term Outage Study, 2009).
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 16convenience. Nation states, criminal groups, and lone hackers are well aware of the significance of ICT
infrastructure vulnerabilities at multiple levels (e.g., network, service, application, and user).
In the face of this dynamic environment, risk avoidance is simply not possible—no organization can prevent all
threats or attacks or eliminate all of its vulnerabilities. Therefore, consistent with the NIPP 2013 Critical
Infrastructure Risk Management Framework, the Communications Sector’s approach to network defense
prioritizes assets, assesses threats and vulnerabilities, and then uses such criteria to focus resources on those
defenses that can yield optimal protection. The Communications Sector regularly undertakes risk assessments to
address evolving issues by topic, segment, or threat. Across the Communications Sector, industry and government
partners (including CSCC, CGCC, NSTAC, NCC, and NSIE) collaborate to execute risk assessments as an
ongoing activity with the intent to maintain a national communications infrastructure that is resilient, diverse,
redundant, and recoverable. Figure 4-1 highlights some of the risk assessment activities undertaken by the
Communications Sector over the past decade.
Figure 4-1: Communications Sector’s Risk Assessment History
Under the NIPP 2013 Critical Infrastructure Risk Management Framework, risk is defined as the potential for an
adverse outcome from an event, determined by the event’s likelihood—a function of the specific threats and
vulnerabilities—and associated consequences if the event occurs. While individual owners and operators are
responsible for managing risk to their individual assets, the Communications Sector has undertaken the risk
assessments highlighted above to improve understanding of threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences, as well as
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 17to provide owners and operators with tools, guidelines, information, best practices, and resources to facilitate
more effective risk assessments and risk management decisions at the facility and sector level.
The Communications Sector separately and collectively, regularly and routinely undertakes risk assessments to
address evolving issues by topic, by segment, or by threat. Figure 4-2 outlines the Communications Sector’s
approach to risk reduction.
Figure 4-2: Communications Sector Approach to Risk Reduction
At the implementation level, the sector’s critical infrastructure risk management approach aligns to the NIPP 2013
Critical Infrastructure Risk Management Framework (Figure 4-3).
 Identify Infrastructure: Identify assets, systems, and networks that contribute to critical functionality
and collect information pertinent to risk management, including analysis of dependencies and
interdependencies.
 Assess and Analyze Risks: Evaluate the risk, taking into consideration the potential direct and indirect
consequences of an incident, known vulnerabilities to various potential threats or hazards, and general or
specific threat information.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 18 Implement Risk Management Activities: Make decisions and implement risk management approaches
to control, accept, transfer, or avoid risks. Approaches can include prevention, protection, mitigation,
response, and recovery activities.
Figure 4-3: NIPP 2013 Critical Infrastructure Risk Management Framework
Identify Infrastructure
After the Communications Sector has jointly determined its shared vision and mission and then established its
priorities and goals to achieve them, the Communications Sector works with owner and operators of other critical
services to identify which assets or operations are the most crucial for national security and resilience. The
Communications Sector ensures that response and restoration activities for these assets are included in State,
local, and regional response plans. Communications owners and operators also work with their critical customers
to develop emergency operations plans. As the SSA for the Communications Sector, DHS’s CS&C helps to
identify and obtain appropriate data for assets, systems, and networks that play a vital role in the Nation’s security
or economy.
Assess and Analyze Risks
Each individual owner and operator performs risk assessments for critical assets using diverse methodologies,
ranging from failure modes and impact analyses, to hazard and operability studies. DHS works with all sector
partners to identify existing risk tools and methodologies that may contribute toward developing a sector-wide
risk assessment. Many communications companies are global corporations with extensive experience in handling
natural and manmade threats and have very sophisticated methodologies for analyzing risks and prioritizing
investments. In addition to individual security practices and risk mitigation measures implemented at individual
facilities, owners and operators work with their peer companies and government partners to develop risk
assessment programs.
Implement Risk Management Activities
Mitigation Options
Risk assessment results inform the selection and implementation of mitigation activities and the establishment of
risk management priorities for Communications Sector owners and operators. Owners and operators prioritize and
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 19implement risk mitigation activities based on their cost-effectiveness, feasibility, and potential for risk reduction.
Risk management actions include measures designed to deter, disrupt, and prepare for threats and hazards; reduce
vulnerability to an attack or other disaster; mitigate consequences; and enable timely, efficient response and
restoration in a post-event situation, whether a terrorist attack, natural disaster, or other incident.
The Communications Sector implements risk reduction activities, as appropriate, with multiple mitigation options
relevant to specific identified risks. Physical risks require different mitigations than cybersecurity risks; for
example, installation methods to protect GPS antennas or communication facilities in earthquake-prone areas will
differ from methods to mitigate cybersecurity vulnerabilities pertaining to data integrity and confidentiality. The
sector actively engages in the FCC’s CSRIC to identify best practices that are applicable to the five industry
segments: broadcasting, cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline.
Managing Cyber Risks
Cybersecurity risks and trends, when assessed collectively, can reach levels that fall beyond the ability of
individual industry and government organizations to manage, such as when multiple organizations in an industry
use the same software platform and become vulnerable to the same exploits. While organizations typically
manage these types of issues on an individual basis or with a few key partners, examining risks from a sector level
provides major long-term benefits. The Communications Sector takes a collaborative approach to cyber risk by
working with DHS to evaluate the cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences to these critical
functions and establish the sector’s cyber-risk priorities. Through CSRIC Working Group #4, the sector has
successfully mapped the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework
(CSF) to the five segments as a means to further enhance the cybersecurity of its networks and facilities.18
Once risks are validated, the Communications Sector has a function-by-function view of cyber risk that informs
sector-specific risk management strategies and decision-making. This unified strategy provides the key linkage
between national- and organization-level cyber risk management efforts, thereby enabling the Communications
Sector to take a risk-informed approach to sector cybersecurity planning and stakeholder outreach over the
coming years and make the most of limited government and industry resources.
Other Risk Specific Activities
Information sharing can also help to reduce risk and inform mitigation strategies. As the operational arm of the
Communications Sector, and the communications operational arm of the National Communications and
Cybersecurity Integration Center, the Comm-ISAC is first and foremost a response group. The Comm-ISAC also
actively promotes and engages in information sharing regarding vulnerabilities, threats, intrusions, and anomalies
from multiple sources with the intent of averting or mitigating effects on the communications infrastructure.
18 The NIST CSF is available at the following URL: http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity-framework-
021214.pdf. Accessed December 3, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 20Operating under the auspices of the CIPAC framework, the Communications Sector’s Supply Chain Working
Group (SCWG) was established to identify supply chain risk management (SCRM) best practices, mitigation
opportunities, and long-term planning to institutionalize effective SCRM models across the sector.
As the nature of the threat environment changes, risk identification is cyclical. Communication entities must
continually engage in prevention, protection, mitigation, response, and recovery to effectively manage and reduce
risks. The Communications Sector continues to work with the Federal Government to identify opportunities for
the CSCC, CGCC, and the State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Government Coordinating Council to establish
new and enhance existing programs that identify and mitigate communication response and recovery issues.
Mitigating Dependence on Lifeline Functions
Communications Sector owners and operators develop contingency plans, backup generation supplies, and
alternate communication methods and transportation routes as part of their emergency operation and business
continuity plans. In particular, owners and operators draw upon lessons learned from cross-sector partners during
State and local emergency exercises to form more accurate expectations of lifeline function availability during a
major disaster. Additionally, owners and operators also develop mitigations to address the effects of secondary
dependencies, such as GPS loss and transportation. Examples of dependency mitigation actions are listed in Table
4-1.
Table 4-1: Communications Sector Critical Dependencies and Mitigations for Dependencies
Sector Critical Dependencies Mitigations for Dependencies
Energy Provides each segment of the Use of backup electric power systems,
communications infrastructure with electric including battery backup systems and
power (e.g., power and fuel to run cellular generators, to keep its critical network
infrastructure, central offices, PoPs, and components operational
other communication facilities)
Transportation Supports delivery of fuel to support backup Established refueling contracts for
power systems emergency incidents
IT Provides products, software systems, and Industry risk management practices to
applications that are used to operate the manage and mitigate supply chain-related
Communications Sector (e.g., DNS, threats
operating systems, certificate authorities)
Water Provides potable water for heating and Use of backup and redundant water supplies
cooling of data centers and other onsite
communications facilities (e.g., high-tonnage
heating, ventilation and air conditioning
systems that require drinkable water to
operate in order to keep their computer
systems cool)
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 21Sector Critical Dependencies Mitigations for Dependencies
DIB (GPS) Supports precise timing and synchronization Automatic backup capabilities and other
for networks mitigations to manage network performance
in the event of GPS loss
4.2 Research & Development
The Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience National Research and Development Plan (CISR National
R&D Plan) required by Presidential Policy Directive 21 was released in February 2015. The CISR National R&D
Plan presents five overarching Priority Areas that are intended to inform R&D investments, promote innovation,
and guide research across the critical infrastructure community.
The CISR National R&D Plan Priority Areas are:
 Develop the foundational understanding of critical infrastructure systems and systems dynamics;
 Develop integrated and scalable risk assessment and management approaches;
 Develop integrated and proactive capabilities, technologies, and methods to support secure and resilient
infrastructure;
 Harness the power of data sciences to create unified, integrated situational awareness and to understand
consequences of action; and
 Build a crosscutting culture of critical infrastructure security and resilience R&D collaboration.
The Communications Sector will consider these five Priority Areas as inputs in its planning and coordination
efforts to align its R&D activities and support implementation of the CISR National R&D Plan. The
Communications Sector will continue to use the R&D process outlined in the 2010 CSSP for identifying,
managing, and planning new and existing R&D initiatives.
Many of the new challenges facing the Communications Sector call for innovations in science and technology,
making R&D initiatives essential to sector critical infrastructure security and resilience. The Communications
Sector will continue to work collaboratively to identify criteria used to select new and existing R&D initiatives.
The Communications Sector will use the R&D Planning Process outlined in the 2010 CSSP.19
4.3 Critical Infrastructure and National Preparedness
19 The Communications R&D planning strategy is available within the Communications Sector-Specific Plan on pages 63-68,
available at URL: http://www.dhs.gov/publication/nipp-ssp-communications-2010. Accessed December 3, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 22Despite the potential large-scale implications of a major disaster, critical infrastructure preparedness, response,
and recovery takes place primarily at the community and regional level among cross-sector owners and operators
of regionally critical assets. Sector partners have conducted several activities to improve incident response and
recovery at the regional level to contribute to national preparedness.
EO 13618 highlights the Federal Government’s need to communicate at all times and under all circumstances to
carry out its most critical and time sensitive functions.20 The Communications Sector plays an essential role by
working closely with DHS’s OEC to establish and maintain NS/EP communication services and programs,
including the Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS), Wireless Priority Service (WPS),
and Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) Program. GETS and WPS provide priority completion of
wireline and wireless calls when the PSTN is congested in an emergency, while the TSP program provides for
priority restoration and provisioning of telecommunication circuits following a disruption of service.
Government and industry help to guide the formulation of policy considerations for communications that support
the Executive Office of the President. EO 13618 also established the NS/EP Executive Committee to address
NS/EP communication matters and to make recommendations to the President on NS/EP communications,
thereby enhancing the survivability, resilience, and future architecture of NS/EP communications, including what
should constitute NS/EP communication requirements. The NSTAC provides industry-based advice and expertise
to the President on issues and problems related to implementing NS/EP communications policy.
At the operational or response level, the Comm-ISAC facilitates voluntary collaboration and information sharing
among government and industry in support of EO 13618 and the national critical infrastructure protection goals of
Presidential Decision Directive 63, Critical Infrastructure Protection. This operational partnership has been in
place since 1984 and is the only public/private ISAC.21 Over 60 private sector ICT companies and 24 Federal
Government departments and agencies are participants in the Comm-ISAC. Industry members include
communications equipment and software vendors; wireline communication providers; and wireless
communication providers, including satellite providers, broadcast, public safety, and Internet Service Provider
backbone networks.
The Comm-ISAC or NCC continuously monitors national and international incidents and events that may impact
emergency communications. Incidents include not only acts of terrorism, but also natural events such as
tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, and earthquakes. In cases of emergency, the NCC Watch leads emergency
communications response and recovery efforts under Emergency Support Function #2 of the National Response
Framework. With much of the Nation’s cyber infrastructure tied into communications, the NCC works with both
the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) and the Industrial Control Systems Cyber
20 EO 13618, Assignment of National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions, July 6, 2012, is
available at the following URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2012/07/06/executive-order-assignment-
national-security-and-emergency-preparedness-. Accessed December 3, 2015.
21As a direct result of an NSTAC recommendation, President Ronald Reagan established the NCC in 1984 to facilitate the
coordination of NS/EP telecommunications restoration and provisioning (https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=16010). Accessed
December 3, 2015.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 23Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) to monitor and resolve issues impacting cyber and communications
during an emergency.
The Communications Sector also works closely with CS&C to support the Critical Infrastructure Cyber
Community (C³) Voluntary Program, which is the coordination point within the Federal Government for critical
infrastructure owners and operators interested in improving their cyber risk management processes. The Program
aims to help industry increase its cyber resilience and awareness, improve its use of the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework, and encourage organizations to manage cybersecurity as part of an all-hazards approach to enterprise
risk management.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 245. MEASURING EFFECTIVENESS
5.1 Sector Objectives
Communications Sector partners developed a set of broad objectives aligned to the four sector priorities to help
implement this CSSP and meaningfully contribute to sector goals and priorities. The following objectives in Table
5-1 include both voluntary partnership activities and tasks the sector may pursue on its own volition. Since the
SSPs are updated every four years, the Communications Sector partnership may modify the activities undertaken
to support those objectives in order to reflect evolving risk, changes in resource allocations, and activity
completion. Based on available resources alone, the sector identified the top objectives it believes will make a
significant contribution to national security and resilience. The goal of the sector is to pursue these activities.
Activities identified to support those objectives will go through an additional prioritization process between the
CGCC and CSCC to identify and pursue those that will be achievable in the next several years. Table 5-1 shows
how the sector’s joint priorities are mapped to the planned objectives over the next four years.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 25Table 5-1: Communications Sector Priorities and Objectives
5.2 Measurement Approach
For the purposes of the CSSP, DHS CS&C, as the SSA, is primarily responsible for measuring sector-wide
progress through partnership activities towards national goals using relevant metrics. The SSA is also responsible
for reporting sector progress through the National Annual Reporting process and the quadrennial SSP update.
In support of DHS reporting requirements, the CSCC independently develops an Annual Report outlining sector
activities undertaken the previous year to ensure the Nation’s communication networks and systems are secure,
resilient, and rapidly restored after a natural or manmade disaster. Given the diversity of fora and venues in which
the Communications Sector collaborates with government (at all levels) or other sectors, this Annual Report
intends to highlight the breadth of work and where that work is ongoing. This Annual Report is also consistent
with the CSCC’s role to provide visibility across the sector in areas of ongoing risk management activities.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 26Sector Annual Reporting Process
The Communications Sector recognizes the national interest in securing all 16 sectors’ critical infrastructure
identified by the Federal Government, including communications critical infrastructure. Communications Sector
member companies are incentivized to take appropriate measures and protect their infrastructure from the growing
issue of cyberattacks. However, the Communications Sector also understands the government’s need for some
public assurances that provide the Communications Sector’s SSA with insight into the effects of cyber threats on
critical communications network infrastructure.
To this end, the sector’s goals and objectives would be consistent with the language in Table 5-1 above.
Additionally, the CSCC is planning to develop and incorporate macro-level assurances in the form of aggregated,
quantitative metrics associated initially with the availability of communications critical infrastructure as part of
the industry-developed Sector Annual Report (SAR). The sector-developed SAR will then be provided to DHS, as
the Communications Sector SSA, as well as the CGCC, which includes the FCC and other government agencies.
Doing so ensures that (1) the various agencies that participate in the CGCC have visibility into efforts, initiatives,
and progress within the Communications Sector and (2) any information provided to support this initiative is
afforded the protections of CIPAC and Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII).
In addition to the aggregated quantitative metrics, the sector anticipates that the SAR will also incorporate
qualitative or anecdotal examples, such as actions Communications Sector members have taken over the past year
to mitigate or recover from specific cyberattacks and/or incidents.
Process for Measuring Effectiveness
The Communications Sector will continue to leverage CSRIC recommendations and other best practices from
national-level exercises and the Comm-ISAC to inform the sector’s ability to measure effectiveness moving
forward. The Communications Sector will leverage the NIPP 2013 CtA categories to track and report, on a
quarterly basis, the progress of sector activities to DHS’s Office of Infrastructure Protection. The NIPP 2013’s
CtA guides efforts to achieve national goals and, therefore, enhance national critical infrastructure security and
resilience.22 The NIPP 2013 CtA will serve as a roadmap to ensure continuous improvement of security and
resilience through the Communications Sector’s efforts. The actions listed below provide strategic direction for
national efforts in the coming years.
Build upon Partnership Efforts (1-4):
1. Set National Focus through Jointly Developed Priorities
2. Determine Collective Actions through Joint Planning Efforts
3. Empower Local and Regional Partnerships to Build Capacity Nationally
4. Leverage Incentives to Advance Security and Resilience
Innovate in Managing Risk (5-10):
22 NIPP 2013: Partnering for Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 275. Enable Risk-Informed Decision-Making through Enhanced Situational Awareness
6. Analyze Infrastructure Dependencies, Interdependencies, and Associated Cascading Effects
7. Identify, Assess, and Respond to Unanticipated Infrastructure Cascading Effects During and Following
Incidents
8. Promote Infrastructure, Community, and Regional Recovery Following Incidents
9. Strengthen Coordinated Development and Delivery of Technical Assistance, Training, and Education
10. Improve Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience by Advancing R&D Solutions
Focus on Outcomes (11-12):
11. Evaluate Progress toward the Achievement of Goals
12. Learn and Adapt During and After Exercises and Incidents
Table 5-2 shows how the sector’s priorities and objectives align to the NIPP 2013 CtA, which is how the sector
plans to report out on progress and measure effectiveness.
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 28Table 5-2: Communications Sector Priorities and Objectives aligned to the NIPP 2013 Calls to Action
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 29APPENDIX A: LIST OF ACRONYMS AND
ABBREVIATIONS
APEC Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BCP Business Continuity Planning
BSC Base Station Controller
BSS Broadcast Satellite Service
CATV Cable Television
CCMG Continuity Communications Managers Group
CCPC Civil Communications Planning Committee
CDEP Report Communications Dependency on Electric Power Report
CDEPWG Communications Dependency on Electric Power Working Group
CEPTAG Civil Emergency Planning Telecommunications Advisory Group
CERT Computer Emergency Readiness Team
CGCC Communications Government Coordinating Council
CII Critical Infrastructure Information
CIPAC Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council
Comm-ISAC Communications Information Sharing and Analysis Center
CIKR Critical Infrastructure and Key Resources
CLEC Competitive Local Exchange Carrier
CMRS Commercial Mobile Radio Services
COG Continuity of Government
CONUS Continental United States
COOP Continuity of Operations
COP Committee of Principals
CPE Customer Premise Equipment
COR Council of Representatives
CS&C Office of Cybersecurity and Communications
CSCC Communications Sector Coordinating Council
CSF Cyber Security Framework
CSCSWG Cross-Sector Cyber Security Working Group
CSIA Cyber Security and Information Assurance
CSIA IWG Cyber Security and Information Assurance Interagency Working Group
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 30CSRIC Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council
CSSP Communications Sector-Specific Plan
CtA Call to Action
DARPA Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DEC Disaster Emergency Communications
DHS U.S. Department of Homeland Security
DIRS Disaster Information Reporting System
DNS Domain Name System
DOC U.S. Department of Commerce
DoD U.S. Department of Defense
DOJ U.S. Department of Justice
DOS U.S. Department of State
DPAS Defense Priorities and Allocations System
DSL Digital Subscriber Line
DTV Digital Television
E-911 Enhanced 911
EAS Emergency Alert System
EC Executive Committee
ECG Enduring Constitutional Government
ECPC Emergency Communications Preparedness Center
E.O. Executive Order
EOP Executive Office of the President
EOT Emergency Operations Team
ERC Emergency Response Council
ERT Emergency Response Training
ESF-2 Emergency Support Function 2
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency
FPIC Federal Partnership for Interoperable Communications
FY Fiscal Year
GCC Government Coordinating Council
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbiter
GETS Government Emergency Telecommunications Service
GIP&M Government-Industry Planning and Management
GPS Global Positioning System
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 31HF High Frequency
HFC Hybrid Fiber Coaxial
HITRAC Homeland Infrastructure Threat and Risk Analysis Center
HSA Homeland Security Advisor
HSIN Homeland Security Information Network
HSIN-CS Homeland Security Information Network–Critical Sectors
HSPD Homeland Security Presidential Directive
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
IAC Internet Analysis Capability
ICT Information and Communication Technology
ICTAP Interoperable Communications Technical Assistance Program
ICS-CERT Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team
IMA Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IMS Internet-protocol Multimedia Subsystem
IoT Internet of Things
IP Internet Protocol
IPAWS Integrated Public Alert and Warning System
IR Industry Requirements
IRI Industrial Research Institute
ISAC Information Sharing and Analysis Center
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
ISP Internet Service Provider
IT Information Technology
IT-ISAC Information Technology Information Sharing and Analysis Center
ITU International Telecommunication Union
IXC Interexchange Carrier
JCG Joint Contact Group
JFO Joint Field Office
LATA Local Access and Transport Areas
LEC Local Exchange Carrier
LEO Low Earth Orbit
LERG Local Exchange Routing Guide
LTO Long-Term Outage
MEF Mission Essential Function
MEO Middle Earth Orbit
MG Media Gateway
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 32MGC Media Gateway Controller
MSC Mobile Switching Center
MS-ISAC Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center
MSO Multiple-System Operators
MSRC Media Security and Reliability Council
MSS Mobile Satellite Service
MVPD Multichannel Video Programming Distribution
NARUC National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners
NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCC National Coordinating Center
NCCIC National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
NCIPP National Critical Infrastructure Prioritization Program
NCIRP National Cyber Incident Response Plan
NCRCG National Cyber Response Coordination Group
NCS National Communications System
NCS COP National Communications System Committee of Principals
NCSD National Cyber Security Division
NDAC Network Design and Analysis Capability
NECP National Emergency Communications Plan
NEF National Essential Function
NENA National Emergency Number Association
NGN Next-Generation Network
NGPS Next-Generation Priority Service
NICC National Infrastructure Coordinating Center
NIPP National Infrastructure Protection Plan
NISAC National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology
NITRD Networking and Information Technology Research and Development
NLE National Level Exercise
NOC National Operations Center
NPTS National Plan for Telecommunications Support in Non-Wartime Emergencies
NRF National Response Framework
NRSC Network Reliability Steering Committee
NS/EP National Security and Emergency Preparedness
NSF National Science Foundation
NSIE Network Security Information Exchange
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 33NSRA National Sector Risk Assessment
NSSE National Special Security Event
NSTAC National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
NSTC National Science and Technology Council
NTIA National Telecommunications and Information Administration
OAS Organization of American States
OEC Office of Emergency Communications
OIC Office for Interoperability and Compatibility
OMB Office of Management and Budget
OSTP Office of Science and Technology Policy
PBX Private Branch Exchange
PCII Protected Critical Infrastructure Information
PCIS Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security
PDD Presidential Decision Directive
PMEF Primary Mission Essential Function
PITAC President’s Information Technology Advisory Committee
P.L. Public Law
PN Public Network
POC Point of Contact
POD Partnership and Outreach Division
POP Point of Presence
PSA Protective Security Advisor
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
PTS Priority Telecommunications Service
PUC Public Utility Commission
QHSR Quadrennial Homeland Security Review
R&D Research and Development
RCC Regional Communication Coordinator
RDM Route Diversity Methodology
RDT&E Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation
RDTF Research and Development Task Force
RDX R&D Exchange
RMA Risk Mitigation Activity
RRAP Regional Resilience Assessment Program
SAR Sector Annual Report
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 34SCC Sector Coordinating Council
SCIP Statewide Communication Interoperability Plan
SCRM Supply Chain Risk Management
SCWG Supply Chain Working Group
SDN Software-Defined Network
SG Signaling Gateway
SHIRA Strategic Homeland Infrastructure Risk Assessment
SME Subject Matter Expert
SONET Synchronous Optical Network
SOP Standard Operating Procedure
SPP Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America
SRAS Special Routing Arrangement Service
SS7 Signaling System 7
SSA Sector-Specific Agency
SSP Sector-Specific Plan
S&T Science and Technology Directorate
STL Studio-to-Transmitter Link
SWIC Statewide Interoperability Coordinator
TSP Telecommunications Service Priority
TT&C Telemetry, Tracking, and Command
TTX Tabletop Exercise
UHF Ultra-High Frequency
U.K. United Kingdom
UN United Nations
U.S. United States
U.S.C. United States Code
US-CERT United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team
USDA U.S. Department of Agriculture
VHF Very-High Frequency
VoIP Voice Over Internet Protocol
VSAT Very Small Aperture Terminal
WPS Wireless Priority Service
Communications Sector-Specific Plan 2015 35
