PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG3-EAS_SECURITY_INITIAL_REPORT_062014.pdf:
May 2014 WORKING GROUP 3
Emergency Alert System (EAS)
Initial Report
CSRIC WG3 EAS Security Subcommittee
ReportThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ........................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ............................................................................................. 3
2 Introduction ................................................................................................................ 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure .................................................................................................. 5
2.2 Working Group 3 EAS Security Subcommittee Team Members .......................... 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology .......................................................................... 7
3.1 Objective .............................................................................................................. 7
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................... 7
3.3 Methodology ......................................................................................................... 7
4 Background ................................................................................................................ 9
5 Recommendations ................................................................................................... 10
5.1 Recommended Best Practices ........................................................................... 10
5.2 Recommendation Table Explanation.................................................................. 10
5.2.1 Recommended Security Best Practices for EAS Participants....................... 10
5.2.1.1 Recommended Network and Operational Controls ................................ 11
5.2.1.2 Suggested Additional Controls ............................................................... 13
5.2.2 Emergency Alert Originators ......................................................................... 13
5.2.2.1 Recommended Best Practices for Originators ....................................... 14
5.2.3 EAS Device Manufacturers........................................................................... 15
5.2.3.1 Recommended Best Practices for Device Manufacturers ...................... 16
5.2.4 U.S. Government Agencies .......................................................................... 18
5.2.4.1 Suggested Additional Controls ............................................................... 18
6 Conclusions ............................................................................................................. 20
7 Appendix .................................................................................................................. 21
7.1 References ......................................................................................................... 21
7.1.1 CSRIC .......................................................................................................... 21
7.1.2 NRIC ............................................................................................................. 21
7.1.3 SANS Critical Controls ................................................................................. 21
7.1.3.1 Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense ........................... 21
7.1.4 Additional Resources .................................................................................... 22
7.2 Glossary ............................................................................................................. 23
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Federal Communications Commission (Commission or FCC) established the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) “…to provide
recommendations...to ensure, among other things, optimal security and reliability of
communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety." To
achieve that goal, CSRIC IV established and chartered ten "Working Groups" to
examine the various issues of concern in these areas.
Working Group 3 (WG3) was formed to develop recommendations for the CSRIC's
consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the Emergency
Alert System (EAS). WG3 was divided into three subcommittees: one to review FCC
rules and processes concerning state EAS Plans, one regarding EAS security, and one
to address EAS Operational Issues and the Nationwide EAS Test. Each group worked
with specific questions, including those raised by the FCC in their recent Public Notice
on Nationwide EAS Test Issues.
This document was prepared by the CSRIC WG 3 EAS Security Sub-Group. It identifies
the principal groups associated with EAS as: EAS Participants, emergency alert
originators, EAS device manufacturers, and the federal government. This document
addresses the need for information assurance (IA) and security controls throughout the
EAS in the form of best practices guidelines for each of the defined groups.
CSRIC IV is focusing largely on cyber initiatives. The recommendations contained in
this document should be aligned with the recommendations and strategy of the larger
CSRIC, writ large.
These suggestions cover a lot of the same basic security recommendations and
security hygiene that many other documents will cover but with a more specific focus on
EAS operators, participants, and manufacturers. The simple processes of using
firewalls, configuring related devices properly, and managing them smartly are all laid
out in appropriate detail.
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
2 Introduction
CSRIC IV Working Group 3 was established to develop recommendations for the
CSRIC's consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the EAS.
In order to tackle the issues of EAS a diverse team of Subject Matter Experts were
recruited to participate. The following areas of expertise are represented within the
group.
 Message Originators: FEMA; NWS; State & Local Emergency Managers; State
EAS Networks.
 EAS Participants: Radio; TV; Cable TV; Satellite TV; Satellite Radio.
 EAS Equipment Manufacturers.
 State Emergency Communications Committees
 EAS Experts and Consultants.
 Public Interest, Persons with Disabilities.
The Working Group also developed recommendations for many actions, including best
practices that the Commission should take to promote the security of the EAS. In
addition, FCC staff tasked this Working Group to explore operational issues that arose
during the nationwide EAS test in November 2011.
CSRIC Working Group 3 is divided into three sub-groups:
 State EAS Plans - Recommend steps to improve the process for developing and
submitting state EAS plans to the Commission. Consider the formation and role
of State Emergency Communications Committees (SECCs), and processes for
optimizing the EAS while minimizing burdens on EAS stakeholders.
 EAS Security - Recommend actions to improve promote the security of the EAS.
 Nationwide EAS Test/Operational Issues - Address other EAS-related issues
as assigned to CSRIC by the FCC.
The CSRIC WG 3 EAS Security Sub-Group was charged with providing an initial
deliverable that describes a set of “best practices” for each aspect of EAS. This is the
first of two reports; the follow-on report will address changes to the fundamental
operating mechanisms of EAS.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or
Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co-
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Group Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Group Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 5: 6: Long-Term Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group 10:
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Core Internet Legacy Submarine Infrastructure CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Protocol Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Improvements Practice Landing During
Attacks Updates Sites Emergencies
2.2 Working Group 3 EAS Security Subcommittee Team Members
Working Group 3 consists of the members listed below. The WG3 sub-group for EAS
Security consists of two Co-Chairs: Neil Graves and Richard Perlotto.
Name Affiliation(s) Security Sub-Group
Adrienne Abbott Nevada EAS Chair
John Archer SiriusXM
John Benedict CenturyLink
Ron Boyer Boyer Broadband
Ted Buehner Warning Coordination Meteorologist
National Weather Service
Lynn Claudy National Association of Broadcasters
Roswell Clark Cox Media Group
Kimberly Culp Larimer Emergency Telephone Authority
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics Yes
David Donovan President,
NY State Association of Broadcasters
Chris Fine Goldman Sachs
Clay Freinwald (WG 3 co- Clay Freinwald Technical Services /
chair) Chair, Washington State SECC
Les Garrenton LIN Media
Mike Gerber NOAA
Suzanne Goucher Maine Association of Broadcasters /
Chair, Maine SECC
Neil Graves (EAS Security co- SNR Systems (formerly FEMA IPAWS) Yes
chair)
William Hickey Premiere Radio Networks
Craig Hoden NOAA Yes
Chris Homer Public Broadcasting Service
Steve Johnson Johnson Telecom Yes
Alfred Kenyon FEMA IPAWS Yes
Mark Lucero FEMA Yes
Wayne Luplow LGE/Zenith Electronics Yes
Bruce McFarlane Fairfax County
Dan Mettler Clear Channel Media + Entertainment /
Chair Indiana SECC
David Munson FCC Liaison Yes
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
Brian Oliger Hubbard Radio/WTOP
Darryl Parker TFT, Inc.
Rich Parker Vermont Public Radio /Chair, Vermont SECC
Jerry Parkins Comcast Cable Yes
Efraim Petel AtHoc, Inc.
Richard Perlotto (EAS Security Shadowserver Foundation Yes
co-chair)
Joey Peters MyStateUSA, Inc. Yes
Peter Poulos Citi
Harold Price Sage Alerting Systems Yes
Richard Rudman Broadcast Warning Working Group /
Vice Chair, California SECC
Francisco Sanchez, Jr. Harris County (TX) Office of Homeland
Security
Tim Schott NOAA Yes
Andy Scott V.P. Engineering, NCTA Yes
Bill Schully DIRECTV Yes
Gary Smith Cherry Creek Radio, Arizona SECC
Matthew Straeb Global Security Systems/ALERT FM
Gary Timm Broadcast Chair, Wisconsin SECC
Leonardo Velazquez AT&T U-Verse
Larry Walke (WG3 co-chair) National Association of Broadcasters Yes
Michael Watson Gray Television Group
Kelly Williams NAB Yes
Reed Wilson Belo Corp.
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The FCC charter for CSRIC IV called on WG3 specifically to “develop recommendations
for any actions, including best practices; the Commission should take to promote the
security of the EAS.” The objective of this report is to provide security best practices to
the EAS and responsible and related parties.
3.2 Scope
The EAS Security Subcommittee took the following bodies into consideration regarding
the security of EAS:
 EAS Participants
 Emergency Alert Originators
 EAS Device Manufacturers
 U.S. Government
This document addresses the immediate need of improvement to the security of EAS by
reviewing each of the above elements against industry best practices, including the
SANS 20 Critical Security Controls (v5)1, the Communications Sector-Specific Plan
Annex to the National Infrastructure Protection Plan2, and the NIST Framework for
Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity v1.03. While the SANS Top 20 document
addresses specific controls, the NIPP and NIST Framework address the importance
(and guidance for) instituting an overall security program
This document serves as a best practices guide that EAS Participants, that once
implemented, will result in a more secure EAS. The subcommittee has written the best
practices guide taking into consideration budgetary constraints and complexity of
computer systems.
There is also the future work that needs to be completed related to legacy EAS
capabilities. This document is primarily focused on IP-based capabilities and only
covers a part of the related systems that can also affect EAS capabilities and
messaging.
3.3 Methodology
Building any best practices document is a difficult task that depends heavily on the
audience and constituents who are to abide by the document. This is increasingly
complex when one party is heavily reliant on other businesses and areas of
responsibilities. The best practices should be developed to include the entire
1 http://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls
2 http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/nipp-ssp-communications-2010.pdf
3 http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity-framework-021214-final.pdf
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
ecosystem, and not be limited to one of its subsets.
This concept expands the research into best practices to those who have an effect on
broadcast organizations to include alert originators, device manufacturers, and the U.S.
Government.
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
4 Background
One of the key implications of the adoption of interconnected technologies by EAS
participants is that the EAS system is now dependent on network delivered services. At
that same time, EAS participants have become more dependent on network delivered
services.
We observe that CAP/EAS equipment is spanning these two domains - connecting to
both internal and external networks to monitor and disseminate alert and warning
content through increasingly complex operational environments.
This Task Group endeavored to take a holistic approach in looking at how EAS
participants, alert originators and EAS device manufacturers can defend and protect
their organizations, and to help recover when things go wrong.
As the FCC itself has noted "Every business that uses the Internet is responsible for
creating a culture of security that will enhance business and consumer
confidence."4 The EAS needs to be part of that culture. Protecting against information
security risks is part of protecting the reliability of the Emergency Alert System, the
credibility of the EAS participant, and the bottom line against the costs of recovering
from a security incident.
4 http://www.fcc.gov/cyberforsmallbiz
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
5 Recommendations
5.1 Recommended Best Practices
The recommendations presented by the subcommittee are divided into the following
groups:
1. EAS Participants: These are the obligated to participate with the EAS according
to 47 CFR Part 11.5
2. Emergency Alert Originators: These are the authorized alerting authorities across
the United States at the national, tribal, state, territorial, county, and city level
who have been identified as having the responsibility of alerting their constituents
of imminent threats to life and property.
3. EAS Device Manufacturers: This group is the set of companies that develop and
manufacture EAS devices according to 47 CFR Part 11 and are authorized by
the FCC.
4. U.S. Government: Agencies and commissions of the U.S. Federal Government
with responsibility for the EAS.
Securing EAS is not a one-time effort, but is a continuous process, which should be
applied, assessed, and revised. It is essential for each of these groups to approach EAS
as they would any other critical IT system. EAS should be incorporated into the existing
business IT security program, or if such a program does not exist, one should be
established according to this best practices document and referenced guidance.
5.2 Recommendation Table Explanation
For each group there is a table of recommendations. There are five columns in each
table with the following titles and descriptions:
 Control – A sequence number to identify each individual recommendation.
 Summary – A short name to describe the recommendation.
 Detail – Detailed description of the recommendation.
 Priority – Level of importance of the recommendation. A “1” is highly
recommended, while a “2” is suggested and a “3” should be considered.
 References – Any third-party reference documents for this recommendation
5.2.1 Recommended Security Best Practices for EAS Participants
EAS Participants are responsible for delivering alerts and warnings to the population.
Equipment that is capable of inserting content into the transmission stream of a
broadcast organization, or is able to communicate via command channels to such
devices should be considered part of the overall EAS. The equipment required for
transmitting, receiving, and retransmitting EAS alerts is located within an organization’s
facilities. Therefore, the role of securing the equipment rests with that organization.
5 CITE FCC Rule 47 CFR 11.11
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
Network Controls refers to the EAS devices that are accessible over a network, and
guidelines for providing a more secure networked environment for EAS. EAS
Operational Controls refers to the software configuration and operating standards for
EAS devices.
5.2.1.1 Recommended Network and Operational Controls
R
C P e
f
o r e
n Summary Detail io r e
t r
o
r it
y
n
c
l e
s
 EAS Participants should regularly monitor EAS
Manufacturer information resources (e.g. websites)
to obtain vendor patch/security notifications and
services to remain current with new vulnerabilities,
Update
1 viruses, and other security flaws relevant to systems 1
Awareness
deployed on the network.
 EAS Participants should always make sure the EAS
Manufacturer their current and accurate contact
information.
 There should not be any shared accounts. Each
user should have a single individual account for
access.
 Create individual user accounts.
User  Do not give administrator access to users that do
2 1
Accounts not require it.
 Disable or remove default users accounts.
 Remove unnecessary user accounts.
 Do not use administrative accounts for normal
usage.
 Ensure default passwords are changed before
connecting to Internet. Require password
complexity6. Change passwords after 90 days.
 Passwords should be kept confidential to prevent
unauthorized access. Do not post passwords in NRIC
3 Passwords 1
plain sight, local to a system. Do not share 9.9.8018
passwords to individual user accounts with
associates.
 Do not send passwords that are not encrypted
through unprotected communications.
 Poorly specified access controls can result in giving
Establish an EAS Device user too many or too few privileges.
NRIC 9-8-
"Least Depending on the capabilities of the EAS device,
4 1 8014; NRIC
Access" User provide the user with the appropriate level of device
9-9-8086
Restrictions and system access (e.g. administrator account vs.
user account).
6 An example of password complexity can be found in 8500.2… make this citation complete
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
IT Network  EAS Participants should develop and implement
and periodic physical inspections and maintenance as
5 1 SANS 1-4
Equipment required for EAS equipment and all interfacing
Inspection equipment.
 EAS Participants should establish and implement
procedures to
Regularly o Periodically check with EAS manufacturers
Seek and for patches and updates
Install o Ensure that all security patches and
6 1 SANS 6-1
Software updates relevant to the EAS device are
Updates and promptly applied.
Patches  If required, the system should be rebooted
immediately after patching for the patch to take
effect.
 EAS Participants should have processes in place to
quickly patch/update EAS devices when the
Expedite manufacturer makes security and reliability patches
General available.7
System  If possible, this should include expedited lab testing NRIC
7 1
Updates and of the patches and their effect on network and 9.8.8020
Security component devices.
Patching  EAS Participants should perform a verification
process to ensure that patches/fixes are actually
applied to EAS devices.
 Whenever possible, remote access to EAS devices
Limit or
should be severely restricted. Remote access
Restrict
should always be made via a secure pathway, such
Remote
8 as VPN. 1
Access to
 Remote access should never be made possible by
your EAS
an EAS device that is not secured by a firewall, or
equipment
other network security means.
 There should be a clear process and policy to
Removal of
update access and accounts to EAS equipment NRIC
9 Access
when the roles of users change such as 9.8.8098
Privileges
terminations, exits or transfers.
 EAS Participants should identify and disable
Disable unneeded network accessible services, or provide
SANS 11-1,
10 Unnecessary for additional compensating controls, such as proxy 1
SANS 11-2
Services servers, firewalls, or router filter lists, if such
services are required.
 EAS devices should be configured to validate digital
signatures on CAP messages if the source of the
11 Integrity CAP message requires this feature. 1
 This will prevent spoofed or otherwise altered alerts
from being aired.
Keep CAP  EAS Participants should always maintain EAS
EAS equipment in a secure network environment.
12 Equipment in  This equipment has been designated by the FCC to 1 SANS 11-7
a Secure be Internet facing, therefore basic network security
Network. protocols should be followed.
7 11.35 – functional availability
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 At a minimum, EAS Participants should always use
Internet-
a firewall between EAS equipment and the public
13 Facing 1 SANS 11-7
Internet to reduce unknown external actors from
Firewalls
compromising the system.
 Staff should be aware of the importance of
Security practicing “safe computing.” All users of IT
14 2
Training equipment should be required to complete basic
information assurance training on an annual basis.
Internal-  EAS Participants should consider using a firewall
15 Facing between EAS equipment and all other Participant 2
Firewalls network enabled equipment to reduce insider-threat.
Segment  EAS Participants should ensure network accessible NRIC
16 Networks or administrative ports on EAS equipment are within 2 9.8.8015;
VLANS their own isolated network. SANS 11-5
Keep CAP  EAS Participants should always maintain EAS
EAS equipment in a secure physical environment.
17 Equipment Access controls may include limitations on the 2
Physically ability for unauthorized individuals to access the
Secure equipment, and other measures.
Configuration  Have a security professional audit your
18 3 SANS 10-1
Management configurations to mitigate risks
5.2.1.2 Suggested Additional Controls
The Task Group identified the following additional controls for EAS Participants. These
controls are suggested supplemental best practices for EAS Participants.
R
C e
f
o e
n Summary Detail r e
t r n
o c
l e
s
Ensure
 EAS Participants should use good engineering practice to
3 Message
ensure that EAS monitor source signals are of high quality.
Source Integrity
5.2.2 Emergency Alert Originators
Emergency Alert Originators are the organizations authorized to create the emergency
alerts that are to be disseminated via the EAS. Although Originators are not provided
oversight by the FCC, they are directly related to the EAS and if compromised could
cause either a denial of service to the EAS for that area or false alerts to be distributed.
Securing the message origination and communication methods is imperative to the
security of the EAS.
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
5.2.2.1 Recommended Best Practices for Originators
R
S
C o u m D P r e f e
n
t r o l m a r y
e
t a il
io
r it y
r
e n c e
s
 Originators should include security in their
evaluation criteria when selecting alerting
1 CAP Software software and or any alternative means for EAS 1
Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) message
delivery
 All means for EAS/CAP message delivery
2 CAP Delivery should demonstrate their design provisions for 1
non-repudiation and general security.
Aggregation  Alert aggregators should develop and maintain
3 1
Systems security controls for their servers.
 Originators should keep all EAS and CAP
Physical related hardware and software within a secured
4 1
Security area to limit the ability for unauthorized
individuals to access the equipment.
 Originators should develop and implement
Physical periodic physical inspections and maintenance
5 1
Inspections for all critical EAS related systems.
 Originators should maintain their EAS
Network equipment in a secure network environment.
6 1
Security
 Originators should always use a firewall
Internet-Facing between their alerting tools and the public
7 1 SANS 11-7
Firewalls Internet to reduce unknown external actors from
compromising the system.
 Originators should use a firewall between their
Internal-Facing alerting tools and all other originator network
8 1
Firewalls enabled equipment to reduce insider-threat.
Segment  Originators should ensure network accessible NRIC
9 Networks administrative ports on alert origination 1 9.8.8015;
or VLANS machines are within their own isolated network. SANS 11-5
 Originators should identify and disable
unneeded network accessible services, or
provide for additional compensating controls,
Disable such as proxy servers, firewalls, or router filter
SANS 11-1,
10 Unnecessary lists, if such services are required. 1
SANS 11-2
Services  Originators should always harden the access
control capabilities of each EAS related machine
or network element before deployment to the
extent possible.
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 Originators should establish and implement
procedures to:
o Periodically check with their alert
Regularly Seek origination software developers for
And Install patches and updates.
11 Software o Ensure that all security patches and 1 SANS 6-1
Updates and updates relevant to the software are
Patches promptly applied.
 If required, the system should be rebooted
immediately after patching for the patch to take
effect.
 Originators should have processes in place to
quickly patch/update origination software and
other key systems when the manufacturer
makes important updates and security patches
available. If possible, this should include
Expedite
expedited lab testing of the patches and their
Security
effect on network and component devices. NRIC
12 Patching and 1
 Originators should deploy security and reliability 9.8.8020
General
related software updates (e.g., patches,
Updates
maintenance releases, dot releases) when
available between major software releases.
Originators should perform a verification process
to ensure that patches/fixes are actually applied
to origination machines.
 Whenever possible, remote access to
origination machines should be severely
Limit or Restrict
restricted. Remote access should always be
Remote Access
13 made via a secure pathway, such as VPN. 1
to
Remote access should never be made possible
EAS equipment
by an origination machine that is not secured by
a firewall, or other network security means.
 Ensure default passwords are changed before
connecting to Internet. Require password
14 Passwords 1
complexity. Expire passwords after 90 days.
Limit failed password attempts.
 Disable or remove default user accounts.
15 User Accounts 1
Remove unnecessary user accounts.
 Those using IPAWS for origination are
connecting to a DHS system and should follow
16 IPAWS 2
DHS 4300A in addition to abiding by the rules of
behavior required by FEMA.8
5.2.3 EAS Device Manufacturers
EAS Device Manufacturers are required to build their devices according to 47 CFR Part
11. This section defines the operating standard in which an EAS device transmits,
receives, and retransmits EAS alerts. The following standards should be followed to
help secure the EAS devices for when they are put into operation.
8 DHS Sensitive Systems Policy Directive 4300A, Version 8.0, March 14, 2011
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/foia/mgmt_directive_4300a_policy_v8.pdf
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
5.2.3.1 Recommended Best Practices for Device Manufacturers
R
C o S u m D P r e f e
n t r o l m a r y e t a il io r it y r e n c e
s
 Ensure EAS devices can be updated.
 If automatic updating is available, ensure it is
enabled by default.
1 Updating 1
 If automatic updating is not easily achievable,
the manufacturer should provide guidance on
how the user should apply updates manually.
 Device should require users to change their
password upon first use.
 Device should require complexity when users
2 Passwords select their passwords. 1
 Devices should let users know when their
passwords have reached 90 days and prompt
for change.
3 Access  Devices should default to a least privilege state.
 EAS Devices should be in a basic secure state
by default.
 Manufacturers should work closely and regularly
with customers to provide recommendations
concerning existing default settings and to
identify future default settings that may
Default introduce vulnerabilities. NRIC
4 1
Configurations  Manufacturers should proactively collaborate 9.8.8004
with network operators to identify and provide
recommendations on configurable default
parameters and provide guidelines on system
deployment and integration such that initial
configurations are as secure as allowed by the
technology.
 Manufacturers should incorporate security
guidance in their documentation that is complete
Security NRIC
5 and easy-to-use. 1
Guidance 9.7.0561
 The availability of electronic media to customers
for documentation is essential.
 Manufacturers should ensure that vulnerability
Vulnerability and NRIC
6 and remediation (patch) notification to end users 1
Patch notification 9.8.8916
is timely.
 EAS devices should utilize operating systems
that are currently supported.
 Manufacturers should provide updates if and
when the operating system becomes
Device Operating NRIC
7 unsupported. If not, the manufacturer should 1
System 9.9.8019
specify compensating controls to be
implemented by the user (such as firewalls,
proxies, severely restricting remote access,
etc.).
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 EAS manufacturers should develop and
maintain critical notification methods to
communicate threat or vulnerability information
with their customers.
 EAS Manufacturers should decide the most
Notification to NRIC
8 appropriate method or methods for providing 1
End Users 9.8.8917
notification to their customers, and should use
additional methods if the chosen method is not
effective. The range of notification options may
vary by the severity and/or criticality of the
problem.
 EAS Manufacturers should advise users to use
a minimum of a three-tier architecture (DMZ,
middleware, and private network).
Recommended
 Any CAP/EAS system with sensitive data should
Network NRIC
9 reside on the private network and never be 1
Configuration for 9.8.8000
directly accessible from the Internet.
Users
 DMZ systems should communicate with private
network systems through an application proxy
residing on the middleware tier.
 Manufacturers should work closely and regularly
Recommended with customers to provide recommendations
10 EAS Device concerning existing default settings and to 1
Configuration identify future default settings, which may
introduce vulnerabilities.
 Manufacturers should support time-sensitive
Vulnerability issuance of security and reliability-related NRIC
11 1
Mitigation software/firmware updates and patches, once a 9.9.0536
potential vulnerability has been verified.
 If USB devices are required, the device should
not autorun files.
 The device should not write unprotected data
SANS 5-3;
12 USB that would normally be secured if accessed via 1
SANS 17-8
any other means.
 An inventory of all authorized devices should be
maintained.
 Manufacturers should assemble and maintain
information on third-party contact information to
Contact be used to report a security incident (i.e.,
13 1
Information maintain an e-mail address of
security@manufacturer.com or have a web
page http://www.manufacturer.com/security).
 Manufacturers should include a mechanism to
ensure files are checked for integrity against a
14 System Integrity 2
white-list. If any system files are changed, a
notification should be generated.
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 Manufacturers should participate in regional and
national information sharing groups such as the
National Coordinating Center (NCC), and other
pertinent bodies.
Sharing  Formal membership and participation will NRIC
Information with enhance the receipt of timely threat information 9.8.8066;
15 2
Industry & and will provide a forum for response and NRIC
Government coordination. 9.9.8053
 Membership will also afford access to
proprietary threat and vulnerability information
(under NDA) that may precede public release of
similar data.
 Manufacturers should perform a security audit
using a third-party organization of their EAS
devices for the purpose of increasing the
Security
16 security and controls of these devices. 2
Assessment
 These reviews should be periodically renewed
as new major versions of operating systems,
applications, and hardware are released.
 Manufacturers should include a host based
17 Anti-Virus 3
security system such as anti-virus.
5.2.4 U.S. Government Agencies
The Sub-Group identified a number of additional security-related matters that are
recommended for the responsible Federal agencies to pursue.
5.2.4.1 Suggested Additional Controls
The Task Group identified the following additional controls for US Federal Agencies.
These controls are suggested supplemental best practices for EAS Participants.
R
S
C o u m D e f e
n e r
t r o l m a r y t a il e n c e
s
 Government should create an ongoing forum for public-
1 EAS Forum private collaboration on EAS security (e.g. a public private
partnership for cybersecurity and EAS)
 Industry and government should collaboratively create an
Security
2 industry security roadmap, engaging both EAS Participants,
Roadmap
CAP EAS manufacturers and Federal agencies.
 Include EAS Participants and CAP EAS manufacturers
3 EAS as PCII under the DHS Protected Critical Infrastructure Information
(PCII) Program.
 Government should provide clear guidance to EAS
Participants on cybersecurity best practices, including the
Security
specific best practices identified above. Such guidance
4 Guidance to
should identify the risks, benefits, consequences, and
Users
potential penalties for not following basic security best
practices.
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 Government should provide EAS Participants, Alert
Security Originators and EAS Manufacturers with contact information
5 Points of appropriate for each community to be used to report a
Contact security incident relating to the EAS and its component
parts.
 Government should provide EAS Participants, Alert
Threat Originators and EAS Manufacturers, as appropriate, with
6
Awareness information and updates regarding EAS-specific threats and
general cybersecurity issues.
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
6 Conclusions
The EAS Security sub-committee recommends that the EAS community should adopt
these modest guidelines to secure EAS in its current state. The sub-committee
recommends that all stakeholders incorporate EAS into their existing IT security
program, or establish one if it does not exist. Coordination and collaboration between
the EAS participants, EAS device manufacturers, alert originators, and the government
will reduce the likeliness of EAS being compromised.
This work can never be considered complete since the threats and vulnerabilities of the
EAS eco-system, the devices themselves, the participants and operators of the gear will
continue to change and evolve. This document is a starting point that should be
reviewed and renewed on a regular basis or become stale and unreliable as a source of
ground truth for security recommendations for EAS. As a baseline it is an excellent start
but the level of expected security for the EAS eco-systems may need to change based
on future threats and vulnerabilities.
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
7 Appendix
7.1 References
The EAS security sub-committee utilized several bodies of knowledge as benchmarks
for the creation of the recommended best practices contained in this document,
including previous CSRIC and NRIC recommendations, as well as the updated SANS
critical controls. In addition, the sub-committee notes a range of additional resources,
compiled below, meant to support security cooperation and shared best practices.
7.1.1 CSRIC
Two previous sessions of the FCC-chartered Communications, Security, Reliability, and
Interoperability Council (CSRIC) revised cybersecurity best practices presented by
previous FCC advisory councils, as well as creating a number of additional best
practices.
 CSRIC Working Group 2A Final Report, Cyber Security Best Practices (March
2011)
 CSRIC Working Group 11 Final Report, Consensus Cyber Security Controls
(March 2013)
7.1.2 NRIC
The FCC-chartered Network Reliability and Interoperability Councils (NRIC) were
Federal advisory committees that preceded CSRIC. The former NRICs were comprised
of representatives from communications companies, communications industry
associations, and government entities. The NRICs operated for 14 years (January 1992
through December 2005) and developed over 800 Best Practices. Since the charter of
the CSRIC in 2007, over 200 additional new Best Practices have been established. An
archive of NRIC best practices is hosted at http://www.atis.org/bestpractices/.
7.1.3 SANS Critical Controls
Taken from the SANS web site: http://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls/
7.1.3.1 Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense
Over the years, many security standards and requirements frameworks have been
developed in attempts to address risks to enterprise systems and the critical data in
them. However, most of these efforts have essentially become exercises in reporting on
compliance and have actually diverted security program resources from the constantly
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
evolving attacks that must be addressed. In 2008, this was recognized as a serious
problem by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), and they began an effort that took
an "offense must inform defense" approach to prioritizing a list of the controls that would
have the greatest impact in improving risk posture against real-world threats. A
consortium of U.S. and international agencies quickly grew, and was joined by experts
from private industry and around the globe. Ultimately, recommendations for what
became the Critical Security Controls (the Controls) were coordinated through the
SANS Institute. In 2013, the stewardship and sustainment of the Controls was
transferred to the Council on CyberSecurity (the Council), an independent, global non-
profit entity committed to a secure and open Internet.
The Critical Security Controls focuses first on prioritizing security functions that are
effective against the latest Advanced Targeted Threats, with a strong emphasis on
"What Works" - security controls where products, processes, architectures and services
are in use that have demonstrated real world effectiveness. Standardization and
automation is another top priority, to gain operational efficiencies while also improving
effectiveness. The actions defined by the Controls are demonstrably a subset of the
comprehensive catalog defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) SP 800-53. The Controls do not attempt to replace the work of NIST, including
the Cybersecurity Framework developed in response to Executive Order 13636. The
Controls instead prioritize and focus on a smaller number of actionable controls with
high-payoff, aiming for a "must do first" philosophy. Since the Controls were derived
from the most common attack patterns and were vetted across a very broad community
of government and industry, with very strong consensus on the resulting set of controls,
they serve as the basis for immediate high-value action.
7.1.4 Additional Resources
 CAP, EAS AND IPAWS: Introducing a Defense in Depth Security Strategy for
Cable and IPTV Operations, September 2011, Monroe Electronics.
(http://www.monroe-electronics.com/EAS_pages/pdf/ME-
WhitePaper_IndAdvisory_Network_Security_091211.pdf)
 CAP, EAS AND IPAWS: Introducing a Defense in Depth Security Strategy for
Broadcasters, September 2011, Monroe Electronics / Digital Alert Systems.
(http://www.digitalalertsystems.com/pdf/wpdas-122.pdf)
 Control Systems Cyber Security: Defense in Depth Strategies, October 2009,
U.S. Department of Homeland Security National Cybersecurity and
Communication Integration Center, ICS-CERT. (https://ics-cert.us-
cert.gov/sites/default/files/recommended_practices/Defense_in_Depth_Oct09.pdf
)
 Critical Controls for Effective Cyber Defense, SANS. (http://www.sans.org/critical-
security-controls/cag4-1.pdf)
 Cyber Security Policy Guidebook, Jennifer L. Bayuk, Jason Healey, et al., Wiley,
2012.
 Cyber Security Standards, Practices and Industrial Applications: Systems and
Methodologies (Premier Reference Source), Junaid Ahmed Zubairi and Athar
Mahboob, IGI Global, 2011.
22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
 Developing a Framework To Improve Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,
National Institute of Standards, February 12, 2013.
 DHS Sensitive Systems Policy Directive 4300A, Version 8.0, March 14, 2011
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/foia/mgmt_directive_4300a_policy_v8.pdf
 Improving our Nation’s Cybersecurity through the Public-Private Partnership: A
White Paper, Business Software Alliance, Center for Democracy & Technology,
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Internet Security Alliance, Tech America, March 8,
2011 (https://www.cdt.org/files/pdfs/20110308_cbyersec_paper.pdf).
 NIST SP: 800-12, An Introduction to Computer Security: The NIST Handbook,
National Institute of Standards. (http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-
12/handbook.pdf)
 NIST SP 800-82 Rev 1, Guide to Industrial Control Systems (ICS) Security, May
13, 2013, National Institute of Standards.
(http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-82r1.pdf)
 NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, Recommended Security and Privacy Controls for
Federal Information Systems and Organizations, April 2013, National Institute of
Standards.
 Password Security, Protection and Management, US CERT, 2012
(http://www.us-cert.gov/sites/default/files/publications/PasswordMgmt2012.pdf).
 Understanding Security for Your EAS Equipment: Best Practices and
Recommendations for Users, Monroe Electronics/Digital Alert Systems, January
15, 2014
(http://www.digitalalertsystems.com/pdf/DAS%20EAS%20Security%20WhitePap
er%2001152014.pdf)
7.2 Glossary
Access Control Access Control ensures that resources are only granted to
those users who are entitled to them.
Access Type Privilege to perform an action on an object.
Administrative Account A user account with full privileges on the computer, appliance
or system.
Authentication Authentication is the process of confirming the correctness of
the claimed identity.
Basic Authentication Basic Authentication is the simplest web-based authentication
scheme that works by sending the username and password
with each request.
CERT Computer Emergency Response Team. An organization that
studies computer and network INFOSEC in order to provide
incident response services to victims of attacks, publish alerts
concerning vulnerabilities and threats, and offer other
information to help improve computer and network security.
23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
Data Owner A Data Owner is the entity having responsibility and authority
for the data.
Day Zero The "Day Zero" or "Zero Day" is the day a new vulnerability is
made known. In some cases, a "zero day" exploit is referred
to an exploit for which no patch is available yet. ("day one"->
day at which the patch is made available).
DDoS A Denial of Service attack that uses numerous hosts to
perform the attack
Defense in Depth Defense In-Depth is the approach of using multiple layers of
security to guard against failure of a single security
component.
Denial of Service The prevention of authorized access to a system resource or
the delaying of system operations and functions.
DHS Department of Homeland Security
Disaster Recovery A Disaster Recovery Plan is the process of recovery of IT
Plan systems in the event of a disruption or disaster.
DMZ In computer security, in general a demilitarized zone (DMZ) or
perimeter network is a network area (a subnetwork) that sits
between an organization's internal network and an external
network, usually the Internet. DMZ's help to enable the
layered security model in that they provide subnetwork
segmentation based on security requirements or policy. DMZ's
provide either a transit mechanism from a secure source to an
insecure destination or from an insecure source to a more
secure destination. In some cases, a screened subnet that is
used for servers accessible from the outside is referred to as a
DMZ.
Filtering Router An inter-network router that selectively prevents the passage
of data packets according to a security policy. A filtering router
may be used as a firewall or part of a firewall. A router usually
receives a packet from a network and decides where to
forward it on a second network. A filtering router does the
same, but first decides whether the packet should be
forwarded at all, according to some security policy. The policy
is implemented by rules (packet filters) loaded into the router.
Firewall A logical or physical discontinuity in a network to prevent
unauthorized access to data or resources. A security tool that
protects an individual computer or even an entire network
from unauthorized attempts to access your system.
Gateway A network point that acts as an entrance to another network.
24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
Hacker A hacker is someone who has the technical know-how to
intentionally breach or "hack" into a computer system to steal
confidential information or to cause damage to a computer or
whole network.
Hardening Hardening is the process of identifying and fixing
vulnerabilities on a system.
Hash Function An algorithm that computes a value based on a data object
thereby mapping the data object to a smaller data object.
Header A header is the extra information in a packet that is needed for
the protocol stack to process the packet.
ICS-CERT The Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response
Team (ICS-CERT) works to reduce risks within and across all
critical infrastructure sectors by partnering with law
enforcement agencies and the intelligence community and
coordinating efforts among Federal, state, local, and tribal
governments and control systems owners, operators, and
vendors. Additionally, ICS-CERT collaborates with
international and private sector Computer Emergency
Response Teams (CERTs) to share control systems-related
security incidents and mitigation measures.
Intranet A computer network, especially one based on Internet
technology, that an organization uses for its own internal, and
usually private, purposes and that is closed to outsiders.
Intrusion Detection A security management system for computers and networks.
An IDS gathers and analyzes information from various areas
within a computer or a network to identify possible security
breaches, which include both intrusions (attacks from outside
the organization) and misuse (attacks from within the
organization).
Least Privilege Least Privilege is the principle of allowing users or
applications the least amount of permissions necessary to
perform their intended function.
Malware A generic term for a number of different types of malicious
code.
NCCIC The National Cybersecurity & Communications Integration
Center (NCCIC), within the DHS Office of Cybersecurity and
Communications, serves as a centralized location where
operational elements involved in cybersecurity and
communications reliance are coordinated and integrated.
Network Mapping To compile an electronic inventory of the systems and the
services on your network.
25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology, a unit of the
US Commerce Department. Formerly known as the National
Bureau of Standards, NIST promotes and maintains
measurement standards. It also has active programs for
encouraging and assisting industry and science to develop
and use these standards.
NSTAC The President’s National Security Telecommunications
Advisory Committee (NSTAC) mission is to provide the U.S.
Government the best possible industry advice on
telecommunications availability and reliability.
Risk Assessment A Risk Assessment is the process by which risks are identified
and the impact of those risks determined.
Router Routers interconnect logical networks by forwarding
information to other networks based upon IP addresses.
Security Policy A set of rules and practices that specify or regulate how a
system or organization provides security services to protect
sensitive and critical system resources.
Threat A potential for violation of security, which exists when there is
a circumstance, capability, action, or event that could breach
security and cause harm.
Threat Assessment A threat assessment is the identification of types of threats
that an organization might be exposed to.
Threat Model A threat model is used to describe a given threat and the harm
it could to do a system if it has a vulnerability.
Threat Vector The method a threat uses to get to the target.
Trust Trust determine which permissions and what actions other
systems or users can perform on remote machines.
US-CERT The Department of Homeland Security's United States
Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) leads
efforts to improve the nation's cybersecurity posture,
coordinate cyber information sharing, and proactively manage
cyber risks to the Nation
Virus A program that attaches itself to an executable file or
vulnerable application and delivers a payload that ranges from
annoying to extremely destructive. A file virus executes when
an infected file is accessed.
VLAN VLAN is a virtual LAN. A VLAN is a broadcast domain
created by switches, usual created by a router. With VLAN’s,
a switch can create the broadcast domain.
26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3
Final Report May 2014
VPN A virtual private network (VPN) extends a private network
across a public network, such as the Internet. It enables a
computer to send and receive data across shared or public
networks as if it is directly connected to the private network,
while benefiting from the functionality, security and
management policies of the private network. Establishing a
virtual point-to-point connection through the use of dedicated
connections, virtual tunneling protocols, or traffic encryptions
creates a VPN.
27
