HTML Content from https://guides.loc.gov/telecommunications-industry/laws-regulations:
Laws & Regulations - Telecommunications Industry: A Research Guide - Research Guides at Library of Congress Skip to Main Content Library of Congress Research Guides Search this Guide Search Library of Congress Research Guides Business Telecommunications Industry: A Research Guide Laws & Regulations Telecommunications Industry: A Research Guide Introduction Industry History Telecommunications Industry Sectors Toggle Dropdown Telecommunications Industry Codes Radio & Television Broadcasting Wired Telecommunications, Cable & Internet Service Providers (ISPs) Wireless Telecommunications Satellite Telecommunications Periodicals and Trade Literature Databases Trade Associations Laws & Regulations Search the Library's Catalog Using the Library of Congress Laws & Regulations U.S. Capitol building, Washington D.C . [between 1980 and 2006]. Library of Congress Prints and Photographs Division. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulates all interstate telecommunications providers, including radio and television broadcasters, cable providers, internet service providers (ISPs), wireless providers, and satellite providers. State and local public utility authorities generally license and regulate cable companies and intrastate wired communications providers. You can search state government websites for pertinent information. Additional resources, including some of the selected print resources listed below, are available at the Law Library of Congress . Federal Legislation & Regulations The websites below link to the full text of the legislation and additional contextual information. Communications Act of 1934 Information on the Act that combined and organized federal regulation  of telephone, telegraph and radio communications as well as created the FCC. Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act (Cable Act) of 1992 Text and summer of Act amending the Communications Act of 1934. Telecommunications Act of 1996 Synopsis, text, and other materials related to the Act that led to deregulation of the telecommunications industry. FCC Open Internet Order 2015 Order to protect the Open Internet issued March 12, 2015 FCC Restoring Internet Freedom Order 2017 Repeal of net neutrality rules, issued Jan 4, 2018. Selected Books The following materials link to fuller bibliographic information in the Library of Congress Online Catalog . Links to online resources are included when available. E-books versions may be available onsite at the Library of Congress via the Library's STACKS database, accessible on dedicated computers in the reading rooms, or e-book subscription databases . Some of these resource are held by the Law Library of Congress. Please see the Item Availability section of the catalog record to determine where the resource is available. Competition and Regulation in Network by Jean-Marc Zogheib Call Number: K4345 .Z64 2021 ISBN: 9781954750999 Published/Created: 2021-10-13 This book's main objective is to study the interactions between public policy and firms' strategies in the network industries. Going beyond the only economic analysis, the author has shed new light on the problems posed for competition policy and the regulation of digital sectors. —From publisher's description. Internet and Telecommunication Regulation by Stuart Minor Benjamin; James B. Speta Call Number: KF2765 .B456 2019 ISBN: 9781531010904 Published/Created: 2019-01-01 This book provides a comprehensive and advanced analysis of Internet and Telecommunications Regulation, drawing on administrative, constitutional, and economic issues that arise in these important industries. —From publisher's description. Net Neutrality and the Battle for the Open Internet by Danny Kimball Call Number: HE7645 .K453 2022 ISBN: 9780472038596 Published/Created: 2022-08-30 Offers a humanities-based critical theoretical approach to net neutrality. Telecommunications Law and Policy by Stuart Minor Benjamin; James B. Speta Call Number: KF2765 .B46 2015 ISBN: 9781611636918 Published/Created: 2015-01-01 Engages in advanced analysis of the key administrative, constitutional, and economic issues that arise in the various telecommunications settings. The fourth edition has been revised to reflect the increasing importance of broadband and its regulation. —From publisher's description. Telecommunications Law and Regulation by Ian Walden Call Number: KD2880 .T45 2018 ISBN: 9780198807414 Published/Created: 2018-10-16 Coverage of U.S., U.K., and EU regulations since 2012. Internet Resources The following links are to government agencies responsible for regulating the telecommunications industry, along with government resources for conducting further research. Congress.gov Provides coverage of telecommunications law and legislation. Contains legislation from the 103rd Congress (1993) to the present, Congressional Record and committee reports 1995-present. Search telecommunication topics and use the Subject policy limiter for Science, Technology & Communications. FCC.gov Website of the Federal Trade Commission. Includes reports, research, and licensing databases. FCC.gov Public Inspection Files This site provides summary information about, and access to, the “public inspection file” (or “public file”) for the following types of entities: licensed full-service radio and television broadcast stations, Class A television stations, cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers, and satellite radio (also referred to as “Satellite Digital Audio Radio Services” or “SDARS”) licensees. FDsys. Government Printing Office Use this portal to search for federal publications and documents including Congressional committee hearings, Congressional Record, Federal Register, court opinions, etc. related to the telecommunications industry. The Advanced Search allows you to choose which collections to search and then provides a large number of limiters to target the search. Federal Communications Commission The U.S.Federal Communications Commission offers public notices, news releases, orders, notices of proposed rulemaking, fact sheets, audio recordings, the FCC Encyclopedia, 40 specialized databases, maps, working papers, reports and downloadable data sets. FCC also provides conventional and electronic reading rooms. National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) Part of the US Department of Commerce responsible for advising the President on policy issues related to telecommunications. Net Neutrality Law: An Overview. Congressional Research Service Report Full citation: Linebaugh, Chris D. Net Neutrality Law: An Overview. CRS Report R46973, Congressional Research Service, October 18, 2022. World Bank PPPLRC - Telecommunications - Laws, Regulations and Licences External Information from the World Bank's Public-Private Partnership Legal Resource Center on international telecommunications laws and regulations. Related Research Guides Compiling a Federal Legislative History: A Beginner’s Guide is a comprehensive research guide on finding federal legislative history documents, including congressional committee reports and hearings, presidential signing statements, and t << Previous: Trade Associations Next: Search the Library's Catalog >> Last Updated: Feb 25, 2025 11:07 AM URL: https://guides.loc.gov/telecommunications-industry Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Business and Management , Company and Industry Information Back to top Hosted by Springshare Library of Congress Legal SpringShare Privacy Policy
