PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG3_EAS_Plans_Final_Report_032514.pdf:
March 2014 WORKING GROUP 3
Emergency Alert System
Final Report
CSRIC WG3 State EAS Plans Subcommittee ReportThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 2
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 2
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 4
2.1 The Goal of WG3: Helping EAS Committees Create Viable Plans ................................ 4
2.2 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 5
2.3 Working Group 3 Team Members ................................................................................... 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 7
3.1 Working Group Three State EAS Plans Charter .............................................................. 7
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 7
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 7
4 Findings and Recommendations .............................................................................................. 9
4.1 SECC Need for a Federal Government Database ............................................................ 9
4.2 FCC Map Book Approach No Longer Needed ................................................................ 9
4.3 The Two-Source EAN Dilemma ...................................................................................... 9
4.4 Operational Areas vs. Other Geographical or Political Distinctions ............................. 10
4.5 Test Plans ....................................................................................................................... 10
4.6 An EAS Guiding Principle ............................................................................................. 10
4.7 Bringing More Uniformity to the Federal EAS Process ................................................ 11
4.8 The Matrix Approach ..................................................................................................... 11
4.9 Importance of Partnering with FCC ............................................................................... 12
4.10 Border and Regional Plan Coordination ........................................................................ 12
4.11 Further Considerations and Realities ............................................................................. 13
4.12 Ensuring Continued Local EAS Support ....................................................................... 14
4.13 Incorporating FEMA in New and Potential Future EAN Reinforcement ...................... 14
4.14 Recommended SECC Participants ................................................................................. 15
4.15 Other EAN/EAS Participants ......................................................................................... 16
4.16 Other Potential Stakeholders .......................................................................................... 16
4.17 Our suggestions for Identifying SECC Leadership ........................................................ 16
4.18 One Size Does Not Fit All ............................................................................................. 17
4.19 The Importance of State and Local Test Plans ............................................................... 17
4.20 National Test Plans......................................................................................................... 18
4.21 Overall EAS Infrastructure Improvement ...................................................................... 18
5 Overall Recommendations ..................................................................................................... 20
6 APPENDIX ............................................................................................................................ 21
6.1 Appendix 1-Creating A Matrix for EAN Message Distribution and Monitoring
Assignments............................................................................................................................... 21
6.2 Appendix 2-CSRIC WG3 FCC EAS Rule Change Recommendations ......................... 26
6.3 Appendix 3-Definitions of Terms Recommended for Use in State EAS Plans ............. 43
6.4 Appendix 4-Process Flowchart for State and Local Emergency Messages for Use in
State EAS Plans ......................................................................................................................... 44
Page 1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Federal Communications Commission (Commission or FCC) established the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) “…to provide
recommendations...to ensure, among other things, optimal security and reliability of
communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety." To achieve
that goal, CSRIC IV established and chartered ten "Working Groups" to examine the various
issues of concern in these areas.
Working Group 3 (WG3) was formed to develop recommendations for the CSRIC's
consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the Emergency Alert
System (EAS). WG3 was divided into three subcommittees: one to review FCC rules and
processes concerning state EAS Plans, one regarding EAS security, and one to address EAS
Operational Issues and the Nationwide EAS Test. Each group worked with specific questions,
including those raised by the FCC in their recent Public Notice on Nationwide EAS Test Issues.
This report is focused on the assigned task of reviewing "the FCC's rules regarding state EAS
(Emergency Alert System) plans and recommending any actions, including best practices, the
Commission should take to improve the process for State Emergency Communications
Councils’ (SECCs) development of and submission of plans as well as the FCC's process of
review and approval of such plans".1
This report from the WG3 State EAS Plans Subcommittee contains a number of responses to the
FCC's questions as well as comments and recommendations for creating certain uniform EAS
plan elements. These plan elements can provide the Commission, all EAS stakeholders and
Federal agencies responsible for government continuity more assurance that an Emergency
Action Notification (EAN) will reach as many people as possible when conventional means of
communications are compromised or fail. Making key elements of EAS state plans more
uniform will also require an improved description and interpretation of the membership,
structure and duties for EAS State Emergency Communications Committees (SECCs).
We highlight in the report a resource for a new and valuable tool to help the SECCs and the FCC
manage and assess the reliable and resilient dissemination of actual EAS EAN messages. That
tool, which is more fully described in the report, will be a national, federally managed EAS
monitoring assignments database. We identify core plan elements that SECCs should deliver to
the Commission and recommend that the FCC stand up an online Commission database that can
automatically cross-reference specific information with the FCC’s Universal Licensing System
(ULS).
We provide specific examples of recommended Plan sections in Appendix 1 accompanied by
descriptive language on adapting these for individual states. We also provide suggestions on
how SECCs can test dissemination of EAN distribution paths in meaningful ways, and we
1
This paragraph reproduced as received from FCC. The word “Council” is not used when referring to the State-
level EAS organizations. They are usually called “Committees.”
Page 2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
present our vision for how SECCs can maintain and update EAS Plans. In Appendix 2, we
outline our recommendations for changes and updates to FCC Part 11 EAS rules. A table of
helpful definitions is contained in Appendix 3. A process flow chart appears in Appendix 4.
Page 3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
2 Introduction
CSRIC IV Working Group 3 was established to develop recommendations for the CSRIC's
consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the Emergency Alert
System (EAS).
In order to tackle the issues of EAS a diverse team of professionals were recruited to participate.
The following areas of expertise are represented within the group.
 Message Originators: FEMA; NWS; State & Local Emergency Managers; State EAS
Networks.
 EAS Participants: Radio; TV; Cable TV; Satellite TV; Satellite Radio.
 EAS Equipment Manufacturers.
 State Emergency Communications Committees
 EAS Experts and Consultants.
 Public Interest, Persons with Disabilities.
The Working Group also developed recommendations for any actions, including best practices
that the Commission should take to promote the security of the EAS. The Working Group
addressed such other EAS-related issues as assigned to CSRIC by the FCC. In addition, FCC
staff has tasked our Working Group to explore operational issues that arose during the
nationwide EAS test in November 2011.
CSRIC Working Group 3 divided into three subcommittees.
 State EAS Plans - Recommend steps to improve the process for developing and
submitting state EAS plans to the Commission. Consider the formation and role of State
Emergency Communications Committees (SECCs), and processes for optimizing the
EAS while minimizing burdens on EAS stakeholders.
 EAS Security - Recommend actions to improve promote the security of the EAS.
 Nationwide EAS Test/Operational Issues - Address other EAS-related issues as
assigned to CSRIC by the FCC.
2.1 The Goal of WG3: Helping EAS Committees Create Viable Plans
As noted above, Working Group 3 was divided into 3 subcommittees. This report is from the
subcommittee tasked with improving the development of state and territorial EAS Plans. The
group included representatives of the FCC, National Weather Service, FEMA, broadcasters and
the cable TV industries, IPTV and EAS equipment manufacturers. Our focus: viable and
resilient EAN dissemination.
This report to the CSRIC is the product of several months of thoughtful and detailed conference
calls and subcommittee work. This report benefited from the cooperative consideration of
sometimes divergent points of view on key issues. All participants share a strong motivation to
improve the EAS. To create viable plans, we need to have inclusive, active and functional EAS
State Emergency Communications Committees (SECCs) develop workable plans and maintain
and update these plans to eliminate as many single points of failure as possible. Viable, dynamic
plans will not only fulfill the requirements to disseminate EAN messages from the Federal
Page 4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
government to as many people as possible when normal means to do so are impaired or
compromised, but also better support local and state EAS messaging.
2.2 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or
Co-Chairs: Co-Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co-
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working Group 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Long-Term Legacy Submarine Infrastructure 10: CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Core Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
Table 1 - Working Group Structure
2.3 Working Group 3 Team Members
Working Group 3 consists of the members listed below. The WG3 sub-group for State EAS
Plans consists of four Co-Chairs; Clay Freinwald, Rich Parker, Richard Rudman and Gary
Timm
Name Affiliation(s)
Adrienne Abbott Nevada EAS Chair
John Archer SiriusXM
John Benedict CenturyLink
Ron Boyer Boyer Broadband
Ted Buehner Warning Coordination Meteorologist
National Weather Service
Lynn Claudy National Association of Broadcasters
Roswell Clark Cox Media Group
Kimberly Culp Larimer Emergency Telephone Authority
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics
David Donovan President,
NY State Association of Broadcasters
Chris Fine Goldman Sachs
Clay Freinwald (Co-chair) Clay Freinwald Technical Services /
Chair, Washington State SECC
Les Garrenton LIN Media
Mike Gerber NOAA
Suzanne Goucher Maine Association of Broadcasters /
Chair, Maine SECC
Neil Graves SNR Systems (formerly FEMA IPAWS)
Page 5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
William Hickey Premiere Radio Networks
Craig Hoden NOAA
Chris Homer Public Broadcasting Service
Steve Johnson Johnson Telecom
Alfred Kenyon FEMA IPAWS
Wayne Luplow LGE/Zenith Electronics
Bruce McFarlane Fairfax County
Dan Mettler Clear Channel Media + Entertainment /
Chair Indiana SECC
David Munson FCC Liaison
Brian Oliger Hubbard Radio/WTOP
Darryl Parker TFT, Inc.
Rich Parker (EAS Plans Co-Chair) Vermont Public Radio /Chair, Vermont SECC
Jerry Parkins Comcast Cable
Efraim Petel AtHoc, Inc.
Richard Perlotto Shadowserver Foundation
Joey Peters MyStateUSA, Inc.
Peter Poulos Citi
Harold Price Sage Alerting Systems
Richard Rudman (EAS Plans Co-Chair) Broadcast Warning Working Group /
Vice Chair, California SECC
Francisco Sanchez, Jr. Harris County (TX) Office of Homeland
Security
Tim Schott NOAA
Andy Scott V.P. Engineering, NCTA
Bill Schully DIRECTV
Gary Smith KTAR Phoenix, Arizona SECC
Matthew Straeb Global Security Systems/ALERT FM
Gary Timm (EAS Plans Co-Chair) Broadcast Chair, Wisconsin SECC
Leonardo Velazquez AT&T U-Verse
Larry Walke (Co-Chair) National Association of Broadcasters
Michael Watson Gray Television Group
Kelly Williams NAB
Reed Wilson Belo Corp.
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
Page 6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Working Group Three State EAS Plans Charter
The FCC charter for CSRIC IV calls on WG3 specifically to “review the FCC's rules regarding
state EAS plans and recommend any actions, including best practices, the Commission should
take to improve the process for State Emergency Communications Councils’ (SECCs)
development and submission of plans as well as the FCC's process of review and approval of
such plans.” In this regard, the Working Group took into consideration the transition to the
Common Alerting Protocol.
3.2 Scope
The subcommittee’s focus is to recommend improvements for the development and submission
of State EAS plans and FCC review. The approach was designed to accomplish the following
goals:
 Reduce burdens on SECCs and EAS Participants.
 Simplify description of EAS alert dissemination.
 Be verifiable by FCC.
Several issues will need to be looked at:
 Are there existing problems with Federal/State bifurcation at the EAS alert entry point?
 How to address dissemination maps?
 Should collection of information take place via template or online forms?
3.3 Methodology
Working Group 3 uses a collaborative, inclusive approach to its work. Given the array of
expertise, the WG3 members brought to bear on this effort, it is critical to provide a multitude of
forums and outlets through which participants could express their opinions and help shape this
Final Report. The following section details the methodology through which WG3 achieved this
objective.
After its initial set of meeting, the Co-Chairs of Working Group 3 decided to review the
structure of the Working Group and develop a plan that would allow for WG3 to proceed with
its study in an organized fashion which leveraged the diverse backgrounds of the group’s
membership.
In addition to regular conference calls, an online collaboration portal was designed and
implemented for use by the WG3 participants. The portal is accessible to all Working Group
members throughout the duration of their work on behalf of the CSRIC.
Page 7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Table 3 details some of the most prominent capabilities featured on the Portal and how they
were used by the members of the Working Group 3.
Portal Capability Description of Use
Document Collaboration space where members posted, reviewed, and
Repository edited documents
Forum Open space where issues were discussed amongst members
Calendar Central location where all relevant meetings and events
were documented
Table 3
From its inception, the portal became a useful tool for the Working Group as they shared ideas,
resources, and collaborated on common documents, including this Final Report. Given the
disparate locations from which the WG3 members originated, having an online collaboration
tool was instrumental to the successful completion of the Working Group’s final product.
Page 8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
4 Findings and Recommendations
4.1 SECC Need for a Federal Government Database
The subcommittee concludes that SECCs need the resource of a federal government database to
assure EAN dissemination. Secure and authorized access to a federal database by the State
SECCs will contribute greatly to assurance to the Commission and other federal partners that
EAS EAN messages will disseminate to the greatest extent possible. We outlined a standardized
format for database submissions based on an easily understood and commonly used matrix-type
format. We defined the key and continuing role of the Local Emergency Communications
Committees (LECCs). We presented an EAS warning strategy that is structured to clarify for all
EAS Participants exactly who they are supposed to monitor.
We recognize that the Commission has neither the staffing nor local expertise to do this and
must depend on the State and territorial committees for basic monitoring structure, maintenance
and updates. The subcommittee acknowledges there is currently less than 100% certainty that all
50 states and territories are capable of supporting this effort. However, we offer
recommendations that may facilitate reaching closer to a 100% assurance level.
4.2 FCC Map Book Approach No Longer Needed
A simple correlation of a TV or radio EAS Participant’s City of License (COL) or a cable
company’s service area with a monitoring database with a “County” field could replace the Part
11 “Map Book” requirement. Map Books will no longer be needed if a federal database houses
EAS monitoring plan data. If a state or territorial committee wishes to produce a Map Book for
their own use, we see no harm in this practice continuing on a voluntary basis.
4.3 The Two-Source EAN Dilemma
The Commission currently requires that each EAS Participant monitor two analog sources for
the EAN. We note that many EAS Participants cannot meet this requirement due to Primary
Entry Point (PEP) stations that are unable to cover every part of the states and territories with
adequate day and night signals. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
authorized the Premiere Network and National Public Radio to carry analog PEP EAS EAN
messages on their satellite distribution systems. Premiere and NPR can help meet this
requirement once state and territorial committees incorporate them into their plans.
We further note that even if two sources are now shown in state EAS plans, they really may be
duplications of the same single PEP station, rather than a separate source that can be active if a
PEP station cannot relay an EAN. This will be part of an overall effort to purge all monitoring
plans of single point failures.
Page 9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
4.4 Operational Areas vs. Other Geographical or Political Distinctions
We note that there is currently no uniformity in how each SECC’s state or territory may refer to
divisions or regions within it. The term “operational area” was used by the Commission going
back to the Emergency Broadcast System (EBS) days. This term should, where possible, be
standardized because it will work most closely in concert with overall emergency management
practices and terminology.
4.5 Test Plans
State and territorial committees must devise, manage, exercise and review both closed and open
circuit exercise testing. Such testing will give all EAS federal, state and local stakeholders the
assurance needed that dissemination for EAS messages will be available for real emergencies.
4.6 An EAS Guiding Principle
The members of our subcommittee realize that the most important federal warning mission
centers on the EAN code. The EAN Event code exists solely for Presidential declarations related
to major national emergencies. Warnings of all types are at the heart of emergency management
response functions and responsibility. Those in charge of managing emergencies, at all levels,
should, as a core resource management responsibility, coordinate warnings with all other aspects
of emergency response. This not only reinforces the EAN mission, but also reinforces the entire
EAS infrastructure so the Commission can be more confident that an EAN will disseminate as
widely as possible. While there is a growing number of social warning resources, the EAS and
its Primary Entry Point backbone infrastructure must be ready at all times in case an EAN must
be issued and other means are not available.
Warnings of all types will be more successful if the emergency management community adopts
the following as a core principal: emergency public warnings are a response resource for
emergency management at all levels. FEMA, from the federal level and together with local
emergency management agencies, are responsible for proper warning origination. In this sense,
we use the term “response” under its emergency management definition: An asset brought to
bear by emergency management to manage an emergency to a faster and more successful
outcome.
We must treat all emergencies, including national level events that would require use of the
EAN, as local emergencies, similar to the emergency management community at large. In that
sense, emergency public warnings, including EANs, are just as much a response resource as fire
strike teams and emergency food and water. This single change in attitude within the emergency
management community is needed to lead to greater reinforcement of the entire distribution
infrastructure for that core EAN mission. It is our recommendation that the other federal
partners, Congress, and the Administration work together toward this goal. This common goal
emphasizes the need to bind the warning function to emergency management to make it work
successfully from top to bottom and is included herein as a message to all EAS stakeholders and
federal partners who will read this report, rather than as an action item for the FCC.
Page 10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
4.7 Bringing More Uniformity to the Federal EAS Process
Currently, each state creates its own EAS plan with as much or as little detail as the SECC sees
fit to include, and that plan is subsequently submitted to the FCC for approval. As such, there is
no uniform format for these plans. This lack of consistency makes it difficult for the FCC to
determine if a proper distribution network exists for EAS EAN message distribution in each
state.
Our subcommittee considered several options before deciding on a format to recommend. We
provide elements of plans from several state plans as examples in this report. Several of those
states have divided their plans into two main components, a section that defines EAS and its role
in public warning, followed by a practical section on how EAS messages, including the EAN,
are originated and disseminated through each state. In each case, the first section is a permanent
part of the plan while the second section contains information that is subject to change, such as
station call letters, frequencies or addresses as well as monitoring assignments. For example,
California calls the unfixed sections of its plan "Communications Operations Orders" or COOs.
Nevada refers to the changeable sections of its plan as "Appendices". Washington State has
followed a procedure for plan writing similar to that used in California and some other states.
The Washington State SECC constructed its plan in tabular form so that only each element
which requires periodic review and updating needs to be changed instead of rewriting an entire
plan to accommodate needed changes or updates.
No matter what an SECC calls the various sections of its EAS Plan, the underlying principle
should be to create an overall plan that allows SECCs to more easily manage inevitable changes
and efficiently communicate them to the FCC as well as the EAS Participants. The EAS Plans
subcommittee takes the position that all states should write their plans in this way as a top-level
goal.
Simplifying Designations for EAS Stations, Sources and Participants
The Plans Committee views the broad topology of EAS as follows:
 EAN Sources designated by FEMA
 EAS EAN Activation Points that are EAN relay sources for other EAS participants
 EAS Participants who are not designated as LPs
4.8 The Matrix Approach
Our subcommittee recommends that EAS stakeholders should endeavor to build a core standard
for their state’s distribution of federally originated EANs around a model using tabularized
sections. Appendix 1 to this report contains notes on how an SECC can customize the sample
matrix and flow chart tabs.
We must emphasize that with committees in fifty continental United States and the Territories
and Possessions, it is not expected that all EAS plans will adhere our “matrix” suggestions
Page 11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
exactly as presented. Our subcommittee emphasizes that if a standardized submission format is
followed as closely as possible, all committees will be able to report their distribution
infrastructures for a federally-originated EAN in a manner the Commission can more easily
evaluate. This will provide the FCC with an accurate EAN dissemination model to assess the
overall national distribution of federally originated EAN messages. This will also help ensure
that future national “live” code EAN tests will reach to as many EAS Participants as possible,
and a real EAN, should it ever be needed, will do its part to preserve government continuity
objectives.
4.9 Importance of Partnering with FCC
Partnering with the Commission on EAN dissemination using an online entry system is
recommended. The key elements of all properly written state, territorial, possessions and local
plans should contain enough information so that the Commission can cross reference County
information with its current Universal Licensing System (ULS)2 database to help provide the
long sought analysis of EAN dissemination.
We recommend that the FCC create an online entry system so each SECC can securely update
their federal EAN dissemination network that will also automatically update the Commission’s
cross reference to the ULS. While we leave it to the Commission to develop the procedures and
security for this process, the common goal we share is to assure effective and resilient EAN
dissemination in the interests of supporting government continuity, and that goal should provide
the necessary impetus to overcome any obstacles, including funding for this project.
In order to reduce the need for frequent changes and updates to the database, and state plans due
only to changes in call letters, we recommend that the FCC Facility ID, in addition to station call
letters, be used as the unique identifier for each participating broadcast station. Local plans
which reference monitoring assignments by call letters may wish to continue to do so as a
convenience, but the Facility ID should be included as part of the plan in order to allow the
assignment designation to ‘survive’ short term changes in call letters. This will allow the Plans
to maintain consistency with the Online Entry System without requiring frequent updates to that
online system simply for changes in call letters. Ultimately, any change in call letters will
eventually propagate through the ULS database, but using the unique Facility ID would vastly
simplify the process of database maintenance. Facility IDs reference call letters for broadcasters,
and Physical System ID or Community Unit ID references non-broadcast entities such as cable
systems.
4.10 Border and Regional Plan Coordination
Because broadcast signals do not stop at geographic or geopolitical state borders, a key part in
the success of EAS EAN dissemination is regional cooperation to determine primary
responsibility for adjacent and shared state EAS Operational Areas. Some states like
2
The Federal Communications Commission online Universal Licensing System (ULS)
http://wireless.fcc.gov/uls/index.htm?job=home
Page 12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Washington, California and Nevada already have SECC liaison with neighboring states. All
SECCs must inform the Commission in their plans that adjacent state border responsibilities
have been clearly defined. Liaisons from adjacent state SECCs should become part of each
other's SECC to enhance planning and operation coordination.
Basic data entry to accomplish what we envision should only require entering a minimum of
three basic database elements:
 State (or states, territories or protectorates)
 Operational Area Name
 Counties within those Operational Areas, including, if possible, a map or graphic
showing the Operational Area borders
4.11 Further Considerations and Realities
Should the Commission decide to stand up an online system for plan information entry, the
following are recommendations as to how this process should be secured and managed:
 Database Access
The FCC operated database should not be open to everyone for changes and updates.
Monitoring assignments must be coordinated, approved and entered by the SECCs who
are charged with this responsibility.
 Only SECC chairs or designated SECC members or SECC staff should be
permitted to enter monitoring assignment information.
Due to the lack of uniform SECC structures, it is not appropriate for the Rules to specify
who within the organization of an SECC should be able to enter monitoring assignment
information, or language that limits how an SECC wants this duty to be managed. For
example, some SECCs have people who deal with monitor assignments, who may be
someone other than the SECC Chair. The SECC should be given this responsibility and
the ability to discharge this duty in a way that works best for that particular SECC.
Further, each SECC should have the flexibility to designate one or more alternates for
data entry who would be authorized for monitoring assignment data entry. One model for
such authorization already exists in the FCCs Disaster Information Reporting System
(DIRS) website.3
 As an internal SECC policy, entries to the national monitoring database should be
reviewed by each SECC.
Entries should be reviewed and confirmed before actually updating the master database
via a method at the discretion of each SECC. Each SECC should be able to make this
decision, and appoint a Monitoring Database Administrator (MDA). That said, there
must be some means in place to insure that the information transmitted to the FCC from
the SECC is valid. Existing mechanisms for this important step that exist within the
Federal Government could be used.
3
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/services/cip/dirs/dirs.html
Page 13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
 The security model for access to this database should be determined by the FCC.
As the custodian of a central EAS monitoring database, the FCC will have to determine
proper security and authentication measures.
4.12 Ensuring Continued Local EAS Support
All federal emergency alert systems, of which EAS is an essential component, depend on local
distribution. Policies should be developed to provide incentives that will encourage local
communications distribution systems to participate in the emergency warning process. In the
context of EAS, the distribution of federally originated EAN messages depends on the
participation of local LP stations.
Local Primary stations spend significant resources in time and money to ensure that EAN
messages are distributed to every local market throughout the country. The FCC should
consider adopting incentives to encourage continued participation. For example, participation
could be considered as a positive element during the license renewal process. All possible
incentives that encourage better EAS participation should also be examined.4 Such incentive
programs will help ensure that EAS remains strong and vital in local markets and make
significant differences in state EAS infrastructures.
Similarly, we respectfully encourage the FCC to reduce unnecessary disincentives to
participation and candid reporting of any deficiencies discovered during testing. While
recognizing the important role of the FCC Enforcement Bureau for ensuring compliance with
the rules of Part 11, we also recognize that no system of testing can be fully effective without a
sufficient measure of understanding (and public awareness) that tests are intended as diagnostic
events that will necessarily reflect certain imperfections in the system. By instituting a more
measured system of reporting and ‘forgiveness’ for unintended errors, we believe that overall
compliance and participation will be increased. It must be clearly understood that success of a
test should be characterized by the identification of imperfections, rather than 100%
performance. We certainly understand that ‘repeated and willful’ violation or errors must be
dealt with effectively, but it serves no useful purpose to punish participants who are making
honest efforts to implement the system, and in our view it discourages active participation and
frank reporting and assessments of deficiencies so that they may be corrected by participants.
4.13 Incorporating FEMA in New and Potential Future EAN
Reinforcement
The PEP network provides the means for EAN message dissemination to all EAS Participants,
as well as direct “last ditch” communications to the public in a major catastrophe. FEMA has
recently taken a great step forward to reinforce and harden the PEP network, by adding new PEP
stations, reinforcing existing PEP stations and by adding new participants such as the Premiere
Networks satellite network, along with NPR which that FEMA added to the PEP network in
4
While such incentives to encourage better participation in the EAS are clearly outside of the scope of our charge,
we feel it is worth noting that there is a need to explore all possible options to encourage better EAS participation.
Page 14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
2002. Premiere brings expanded capabilities to the EAN dissemination process because the
Clear Channel (Parent of Premiere) owned and operated stations and Premiere syndication
network affiliates are available to a substantial portion of US radio broadcasting licensees.
Our subcommittee favors the Commission’s working with FEMA to encourage EAN
participation by all viable national network distribution systems, including those in the video
realm, to help state SECCs reinforce their EAN distribution to all EAS Participants as widely as
possible. We recommend a new version of the discontinued EBS network distribution model
that would maximize dissemination resilience of the EAN message.5 We additionally
recommend that there be a renewed effort on the part of the federal public warning partners to
work toward the same goal.
Presently, FEMA has not yet announced a timeline to upgrade FEMA IPAWS OPEN for EAN
alerts because IPAWS-OPEN cannot presently support live streaming audio. Live streaming
audio is an implied requirement for the eventual capability needed in IPAWS OPEN for EAN
alerts. If this capability can be implemented we foresee an overall reinforcement.to existing state
and local networks that have already established facilities to support CAP messages as presently
provided for in 47 CFR 11. FEMA should be encouraged to resolve the live audio streaming
issue or identify other ways in which currently deployed CAP equipment can be best utilized
during a national alert.
4.14 Recommended SECC Participants
As part of our work, we have compiled a list of present and potential stakeholders in the overall
EAS picture who ideally should be represented on each state’s SECC.
Again, we look to one of our subcommittee member who is the Minnesota SECC Chair and
presented this example of an SECC roster:
 Minnesota Broadcasters Association
 Minnesota Cable Companies
 National Weather Service
 Minnesota Homeland Security and Emergency Management
 Minnesota State Patrol
 Minnesota Department of Health
 Minnesota Fire Chiefs Association
 County Emergency Managers
 Individual broadcasters including public broadcasters
 Utility company representatives
 Special needs community representatives
 Multilingual community representatives
5
Resilience in this case means providing as many different paths to EAS Participants as possible for reception of
the EAS EAN code. The fewer instances of potential single point failure that exist, the better. Resilience was an
integral part of the old EBS when the three radio networks as well as the two news wire services had direct
connections to FEMA in case of national emergencies.
Page 15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
4.15 Other EAN/EAS Participants
While the above list is only one example of state SECC, SECCs could further include:
 Direct EAS Participants (broadcast licensees, cable, wireless)
 Liaison to Wireless warning providers
 Liaison to IPTV and Satellite providers and others
 Liaison to State EM, NWS, DOJ, FEMA Regions and tribal entities where appropriate
 Liaison to their LECCs
 Liaison to Cable and Broadcaster Associations
 Liaison for each SECC for participating FEMA authorized PEP reinforcement affiliates6
4.16 Other Potential Stakeholders
 Amateur Radio
 AMBER Alert, Silver Alert and/or Blue Alert programs consistent with state practices
 WEA/CMAS
 Other operating public warning systems in the respective states
 Public Broadcasting Network Emergency Messaging Resources
4.17 Our suggestions for Identifying SECC Leadership
Once an SECC identifies as many stakeholders as possible, that group should decide on its
leadership.
When an SECC decides on a leadership structure, we suggest they then notify the Commission
whom they chose and provide the following information:
 Full Name of Chairperson or point of contact for the SECC (or other names if a Co-Chair
is also appointed).
 Affiliation as an EAS Stakeholder
 24/7 Phone Number(s) or other contact information
 Valid Email Address(es)
 Physical address (es)
Titles can be attached at the discretion of the committee to the various EAS constituencies
represented in each SECC, e.g., Cable Vice Chair, Radio Vice Chair, Television Vice Chair,
State Association Vice Chair, State Emergency Management Vice Chair, etc.
6
Premiere and NPR affiliates listed as participating in PEP Reinforcement
Page 16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
4.18 One Size Does Not Fit All
If there was an oft-repeated phrase during our discussions, it was the concern about developing a
“one size” concept. There are a number of reasons that we recommend that the Commission
leave room within any Part 11 SECC matters for variations due to the following reasons:
 State SECCs that have already re-written their plans
 State SECCs that have limited resources to re-write their plans
 State SECCs that have to attract one or more key stakeholders for Plan writing and
maintenance
 Inadequate or non-existent Local Emergency Communications Committees
 Large states where the SECC may not have information on one or more areas
 Inability to recruit LECC members
 Some SECCs may wish to formalize their structure
4.19 The Importance of State and Local Test Plans
Each SECC should design an EAS test plan that will both stress and verify the integrity of EAS
distribution of federally initiated EAN messages. We believe if this is done, effective
distribution for state, local and weather-event EAS messages will follow. With the
Commission’s emphasis on the role of the SECC, a detailed, periodic test plan will not only
insure dissemination of an EAN Event but also of other Events originated by State and Local
entities.
We suggest that SECC test plans ideally should provide for periodic "closed circuit" relay
network segment tests where such relay networks exist.7 These tests, which are not part of the
broadcast program stream, are designed to ensure the integrity of message EAN dissemination
without, in most cases, interrupting program streams. We recognize that various states will have
different operational and logistical requirements, so the specifics of testing is better left to the
individual SECC and described in detail in the state and/or local plan.
SECCs should devise test schedules to have as little impact as possible on the interruption of
program streams and annoyance to the public. Because these are closed circuit tests that are
merely logged, we see no reason for them not to occur between 0000 and 0300 local time.
Where feasible, SECCs should also consider the origination of Common Alerting Protocol
(CAP) test messages to perform closed circuit segments tests that will verify the integrity of
digital state relay network segments and will also not disturb program streams. While FEMA
IPAWS OPEN messages cannot at this time contain streaming live audio, they can still be an
effective test of the integrity of EAN relay segments. Where available, the email capability of
many CAP EAS boxes could help provide relay network segment reports (analog and digital) 8
7
We are using the term “relay network” to mean all links from warning origination points to EAS Participants,
including LP stations, state and local relay networks, and any other means that state and local committees devise to
more effectively disseminate EAS messages, especially EAN messages originated through FEMA’s resources.
8
We envision enlisting volunteer EAS Participants who can add an SECC email address to their EAS devices with
email capability. While we do not have a suggestion at this time for automating collection of such dissemination
reports, we believe that finding a way to accomplish their collection in some automated manner should be a high
priority.
Page 17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
back to the SECCs.
We realize that not all SECCs are able to implement this type of testing; however, such testing
would provide the SECCs with more valuable confirmation about the viability of EAN relay
networks giving reassurance that EANs can reach the public. The Plans subcommittee also noted
that Part 11 should more clearly provide for additional EAS tests for training purposes and for
educating the public about emergency messaging. Further, the emergency management
community should be encouraged to incorporate EAS tests in their emergency management
exercises.
4.20 National Test Plans
There should of course also be a plan to provide for periodic national end-to-end program stream
tests using the National Periodic Test code (NPT). Reliability of any system can only be assured
when the entire system is periodically tested. This is especially important for EAN Event code
EAS messages. The present method of origination of RMT and RWT Events does not test
national distribution of an EAN Event. RMT and RWT represent only a partial test of EAS
message dissemination.
Periodic testing must be done at the national level using all approved EAS EAN distribution
systems. We suggest that a schedule for any national tests (some closed circuit that can occur
overnight) be made available well ahead of the test event. The Operational Issues and
Nationwide Testing Sub-Committee recommended substituting NPTs for two of the RMTs each
year in order to test the national distribution system. We agree with this recommendation.
4.21 Overall EAS Infrastructure Improvement
The FCC’s Rules, especially Part 11, must be built around the needs of the emergency
management community at all levels and what their duty is to the public to provide emergency
public warnings9. Warnings are supposed to present a public at risk with timely notification and
protective actions that can help save more lives and property. Currently the warning process is
not bound to state and local emergency management as a core response resource responsibility.
We believe that binding warnings more closely to the overall management process in the
National Incident Management System (NIMS) will not only solve this problem, but give badly
needed state and local support to the EAN dissemination infrastructure that still has significant
gaps or omissions.10
 Core partners at the federal level include FEMA, NOAA NWS, and the Department of
Justice (AMBER), as well as the White House Communications Agency (WHCA)
9
Other sections of 47 CFR have emergency public warning implications for the EAS EAN and all other EAS
codes. For instance, 47 CFR Part 79.2 (Accessibility of programming providing emergency information)
10
Reports archived at the National Hazards Center at the Colorado State University
[http://www.colorado.edu/hazards/ ] document that many failures to warn can be traced to emergency managers
never issuing warnings
Page 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
operating on behalf of the systems’ primary national user. At the state level,
corresponding state agencies should be involved as partners. More must be done to build
and reinforce public/private partnerships at all levels.11
 Each EAS Plan monitoring assignment matrix must be outlined and managed through
cooperative efforts of each state and territorial EAS committee with full input and
cooperation from their EAS local committees. These matrices can be used to instruct
EAS Participants who they should monitor to get EAS messages within their operational
Area.
 The FCC has to seek permissions and voluntary cooperation when it comes to EAS
distribution and maintenance issues that are rooted in state and local government entities.
Ways have to be found through partnerships outlined in memoranda of understanding
(MOU’s) and other means to provide support at local and state levels for the warning
process that the Commission cannot provide.
 EAS participants should have the confidence that they will not be cited for honest
attempts at “good deeds” with the intent of overall EAS improvement. Reporting of
issues affecting reliable dissemination of all EAS messages, including the EAN, should
be treated as constructive attempts for repairs and improvements. A Commission policy
that information submitted with repair and improvement as goals should be encouraged
at all costs.
11
California enacted Assembly Bill 2231 in 2008 requiring that the Office of Emergency Services (OES) take steps
to form a state level emergency warning public/private partnership to advise OES on developing policies that “will
lay the framework for an improved warning system for the public.” If each state did this, we would have a key
element in place that could assure not only the successful dissemination of EAN messages throughout each state,
but greatly improve the changes that all public warnings (EAS and others) will have their intended effect. That
effect: Helping to save more lives and property by getting timely and accurate protective action information from
emergency managers to a public at risk from a multitude of dangers.
Page 19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
5 Overall Recommendations
Appendix 2 of this report details specific FCC Part 11 rule changes recommended by this
working group. In addition to those specific rule changes, the EAS Plans subcommittee
recommends the following goals for Part 11 Revisions to Support SECCs:
 The role of the SECC must be strengthened, and SECCs must be free to design and
maintain their respective state’s own robust and redundant EAS relay networks in the
best and most practical ways possible.
 That the FCC re-establish a mechanism for SECCs to coordinate with the Commission
and other SECCs. In our opinion, the best way to accomplish this goal is to re-charter
the FCC EAS National Advisory Committee (NAC).
 That the FCC develop technology for SECCs to report changes to state plans and EAS
EAN Event Code distribution in the least demanding and most efficient manner possible
that still provides the Commission with current and accurate information. To accomplish
this goal, we recommend that the FCC adopt our proposal for an on-line database.
 That the FCC update the EAS Handbook as soon as possible. The rewritten EAS
Handbook needs to be applicable as an operator aid. We recommend that the FCC form
an advisory committee to address updating the EAS Handbook, or assign the work to the
next CSRIC group.
 That all references to an FCC Mapbook in Part 11 be eliminated. The Map Book is no
longer necessary as a mandated element of plan submission if the Commission follows
the recommendations of our report and a federal EAS monitoring assignment database is
established.
 We recommend that the FCC adopt incentive approaches to the EAS in the Part 11
rewrite to encourage the role of EAS Participants as partners.
 We encourage the FCC to make it clear in Part 11 that State EAS Plans should be written
and maintained by the SECCs.
Page 20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
6 APPENDIX
6.1 Appendix 1-Creating A Matrix for EAN Message Distribution and
Monitoring Assignments
While EAN messages are designed as a function of the Federal Government, State Emergency
Communications Committees (SECCs) have several obligations to consider in planning how
EAN messages are distributed to the public via broadcast and cable television systems within a
state from their federal originating sources. The products the SECCs produce need to both
instruct the various EAS Participants how this goal is accomplished in the state and also clearly
demonstrate to the FCC how their requirements are met.
There are several ways to explain this process:
 The bottom-up method whereby each broadcast station and Cable system is identified
along with their individual monitoring requirements.
 The top-down method that provides instructions for each level of the process, a more
preferable approach.
 States should be allowed, however, to take the approach that works better for them.
Some states may wish to approach this in both directions:
There are two major tools to accomplish this goal. The first is a graphic in the form of a
flow chart that identifies the major elements of the process. An example of this is shown in
Figure 1 from the Washington State SECC EAS Plan, Tab 14, titled National Message
Analog Distribution.
This flow-chart identifies the sources of EANs:
 The President (or Designee),
 The National PEP System
 The FEMA authorized national EAN distribution systems,
 The legacy Primary Entry Point (PEP) radio station serving the state
 Associated primary systems used to distribute the ‘output’ of currently authorized
FEMA PEP sources.
The flow chart shows simply and graphically how a given state’s message sources are connected
to the Radio, TV and Cable Systems whose primary responsibility is reaching the public with
the President's EAN message. Different states may well employ variations that are unique to
their situations; however, the goal of this graphic remains the same.
The second tool is a matrix for SECCs to explain the specific requirements and/or options for
each EAS Participant in the state to determine their designated monitoring assignments. The
example in Figure 2 is again from the Washington State EAS Plan in which a matrix for various
regions of their state has been created. Note that this matrix has no relationship to the on-line
database that this CSRIC working group is proposing that the FCC establish. Rather, this matrix
Page 21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
is strictly for use by EAS Participants in a state to choose their best monitoring assignments
from the options offered by that State EAS Plan.
The following is an explanation of each field, or column, in the Washington State example
Matrix in Figure 2.
Area Name
SECCs will typically divide a state into Local EAS Areas, often called Operational Areas.
These areas are usually determined by the signal coverage of principal Radio and TV stations,
NOAA Weather Radio coverage and similar supporting information. Operational Areas
sometimes cross state lines. The name for these ‘areas’ will appear in Column 1. Using the top
row in our example, Central Puget Sound is the Area Name. The Matrix will contain ‘Rows’
corresponding to each Local EAS/Operational Area.
Counties
Each Local EAS/Operational area will contain one or more counties depending on the
geopolitical boundaries within each ‘Area’. It is vital that the participants clearly know where
they fit into the larger picture.
In some cases, a portion of a county may be shown. For example, the provided Matrix lists East
Jefferson in Central Puget Sound while West Jefferson is in Coastal. The reason for this is that
the county is divided by a National Park with no road access between the segments. In the
opinion of our subcommittee, decisions such as these are most appropriately left to the SECCs.
EAN Primary Sources
These include FEMA-designated facilities or systems which receive an EAN message directly
from a FEMA Operation Center for delivery to EAS Participants within the State or Local
Area.12
EAN Secondary Sources
These are facilities or systems that receive EAN Messages from primary PEP sources and
further distribute them to EAS participants. Secondary Sources monitor Primary Sources. In
the example these systems described in the sample matrix include:
 State Relay Networks or (SRN), where available. In the case of Washington State, the
SRN automatically relays EAS/EAN messages from the PEP, Statewide on a common
VHF Radio Frequency. In the case of the example, the location of the SRN transmitter is
shown.13
12
See Figure 1 for details.
13
Local Relay Networks (LRN) may also be employed, Like SRN’s, they are direct distribution links, hopefully
wireless, from local emergency management and/or law enforcement that make possible direct delivery of local
emergency messaging. The goal to keep in mind for the LRN distribution model is to encourage and foster less
reliance on the LP distribution model that is a remnant of “daisy-chain” distribution. The LP model dates back to
the Emergency Broadcast System (EBS) days and is much less reliable and relevant when we take into account
major changes in the way that EAS Participants staff their facilities.
Page 22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
 NOAA Weather Radio (NWR) In the Seattle area, the Seattle Weather Forecast Office
(WFO) is equipped with broadcast-type EAS equipment in addition to the standard-issue
NOAA EAS equipment so the WFO can automatically relay EAS/EAN messages from
the PEP through their various radio transmitters served by that WFO.
EAN Tertiary Sources
These are facilities that receive EAN Messages from either Primary or Secondary Sources.
Examples of these systems include Local Primary Stations.
NOAA Site and Frequency
This column lists the National Weather Radio (NWR) facilities providing service to the various
Local Areas.
Other Issues to Note
 The bottom ‘Row’ in the example Matrix shows an adjacent Operation Area. In this case,
Clark County Washington is part of the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area and is,
therefore, considered to be a part of the Oregon EAS System
 There are other ‘Fields’ not shown in this example from the Washington State plan that
provide addition details of facets of the EAS in that state. SECCs should be aware that
they can customize this matrix as needed to illustrate EAN distribution in their state
 We note that Washington State, like many others, has a more complete breakdown of
monitoring assignments within their plan. However, without this level of detail, this
matrix will provide the necessary information for all parties to receive EANs from
multiple points to better assure the FCC that EAS dissemination will occur properly.
Page 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
CSRIC WG3
National Message Analog Distribution Flow-Chart Example
THE PRESIDENT
FEMA
NATIONAL PRIMARY ENTRY POINT SYSTEM
P RIMARY ENTRY POINT (PEP) FEMA DESIGNATED
STATION(S) PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION
SEATTLE SYSTEMS
Primary
EAN
STATE PLAN Sources
DESIGNATED
AFFILIATES
NOAA
STATE RELAY
WEATHER ENTRY POINT
RADIO
Secondary
(IN SELECTED
EAN
AREAS ONLY,
WHERE NWR STATE RELAY Sources
HAS EAS SYSTEM
MONITORING (SR)
EQUIPMENT
INSTALLED)
LOCAL Tertiary
PRIMARY
EAN
FACILITIES
Sources
(LP)
RADIO & TV STATIONS & CABLE SYSTEMS
EAS Participants
Figure 1: EAN Message Flow Chart
Page 24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
SAMPLE WASHINGTON STATE TAB EXAMPLE
National Message Analog Distribution
11.30.13
AREA NAME COUNTIES EAN EAN EAN NOAA WEATHER
PRIMARY SECONDARY TERTIARY RADIO (NWR)
SOURCES SOURCES SOURCES SITE & FREQ
CENTRAL ISLAND >PEP- > SRN West of > KIRO-710- >Puget Sound
PUGET SNOHOMISH 710 AM Bremerton > KPLU 88.5 162.425
SOUND KITSAP >Premiere > NWR
KING >88.5 FM >Seattle
PIERCE >94.9 FM 162.550
E.JEFFERSON
CLALLAM EAST >Premiere >SRN > KONP - >Puget Sound
PORTION >SRN GALBRAITH 1450 162.425
CLALLAM > 89.3 FM South of > K269FX -
Bellingham 101.7
> NWR
CLALLAM WEST >Premiere >SRN ELLIS > KBIS-1490 >Forks
(WEST) PORTION W. Clallam > KBDB – 162.425
CLALLAM County 96.7 >Neah Bay
> NWR 162.550
COASTAL W. JEFF >Premiere >SRN BAW > KXRO-1320 >Olympia
G. HARBOR >SRN FAW > KDUX- 162.475
PACIFIC > 102.1-FM SW of 104.7 >Astoria
Chehalis 162.400
> SRN Forks
NASELLE 162.425
@Naselle
> NWR
COWLITZ COWLITZ >Premiere > SRN BAW > KUKN- > Davis Pk
WAHKIAKUM WAHKIAKUM >SRN FAW 105.5 162.525
SW of > KBAM –
Chehalis 1270
LEWIS LEWIS >Premiere >SRN BAW > KELA - >Olympia
>SRN FAW 1470 162.475
>NWS SW of > KITI 1420
>710 AM Chehalis > KITI-FM
> NWR 95.1
> 100.9 FM
MASON- MASON >710AM >SRN GOLD > KGY-1240 > Olympia
THURSTON THURSTON >97.3 FM West of > KGY-96.9 162.475
>SRN Bremerton
>88.5 FM > NWR
>1340 AM > KPLI 90.1
NORTHERN WHATCOM >Premiere >SRN > KGMI-790 >Puget Sound
PUGET S. JUAN >SRN GALBRAITH > KISM-92.9 162.425
SOUND SKAGIT South of >Blaine
Bellingham 162.525
> NWR
PORTLAND/ CLARK >Clark Co > KXL-750 Portland
VANCOUVER Comm. > KGON-92.3 162.550
Center
155.475
Figure 2: State EAS Plan Monitoring Assignment Matrix
Page 25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
6.2 Appendix 2-CSRIC WG3 FCC EAS Rule Change Recommendations
CSRIC WG3 recommends that the Commission issue the following recommended rule changes in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
(NPRM) for consideration by the greater EAS community.
Key to recommended text changes:
Highlighted text is a recommended change or indicates new proposed text.
Strike-though (text) text indicates recommended deletion of this text.
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
Definitions Recommend dropping paragraphs: Note that NP, LP, SP, and PN
11.2 11.2 (c) LP-1 definition appear first in 11.2 Definitions,
11.2 (f) PN definition and again in 11.18 EAS
11.2 (g) NP definition Designations – with arguably
11.2 (h) SP definition better definitions in the 11.18
section, which uses the term
All four are also defined in 11.18 EAS “sources” rather than “stations” as
Designations, which seems the more is used in the 11.2 section.
appropriate section to define them.
They should not be defined twice, We recommend eliminating the
with different definitions in each 11.2 Definitions for NP, LP, SP,
section. and PN (SR does not appear in
11.2).
Page 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
Definitions (b) Primary Entry Point (PEP) Recommend following insertion:
11.2 (b) System. The PEP system is a (b) Primary Entry Point (PEP)
nationwide network of broadcast System. The PEP system is a
stations and other entities connected nationwide network of broadcast
with government activation points. It stations and other entities designated
is used to distribute EAS messages by FEMA and the FCC connected
that are formatted in the EAS Protocol with government activation points. It
(specified in §11.31), including the is used to distribute EAS messages
EAN and EAS national test messages. that are formatted in the EAS Protocol
FEMA has designated some of the (specified in §11.31), including the
nation's largest radio broadcast EAN and EAS national test messages.
stations as PEPs. The PEPs are FEMA has designated some of the
designated to receive the Presidential nation's largest radio broadcast
alert from FEMA and distribute it to stations as PEPs. The PEPs are
local stations. designated to receive the Presidential
alert from FEMA and distribute it to
local stations.
Definitions (c) Local Primary One (LP-1). The Recommend dropping this paragraph. Uses the term “station”, and is
11.2 (c) LP-1 is a radio or TV station that acts (c) Local Primary One (LP-1). The duplicative but less descriptive
as a key EAS monitoring source. Each LP-1 is a radio or TV station that acts than 11.18 (b).
LP-1 station must monitor its regional as a key EAS monitoring source. Each
PEP station and a back-up source for LP-1 station must monitor its regional
Presidential messages. PEP station and a back-up source for
Presidential messages.
Definitions (f) Participating National (PN). PN Recommend dropping this paragraph. Uses the term “stations”, and is
11.2 (f) stations are broadcast stations that (f) Participating National (PN). PN duplicative but less descriptive
transmit EAS National, state, or local stations are broadcast stations that than 11.18 (e).
transmit EAS National, state, or local
EAS messages to the public.
EAS messages to the public.
Page 27The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
Definitions (g) National Primary (NP). Stations Recommend moving this 11.2 (g) This 11.2 (g) language is more
11.2 (g) that are the primary entry point for language for NP to the 11.18 (a) EAS descriptive than that found in
Presidential messages delivered by Designation description for NP. 11.18 (a), so this language should
FEMA. These stations are responsible be moved to 11.18 (a), but with
for broadcasting a Presidential alert to “stations” changed to “entities”
the public and to State Primary and other minor changes indicated
stations within their broadcast range. in 11.18 (a).
Definitions (h) State Primary (SP). Stations that Recommend dropping this paragraph. Uses the term “stations”, and is
11.2 (h) are the entry point for State messages, (h) State Primary (SP). Stations that duplicative but less descriptive
which can originate from the are the entry point for State messages, than 11.18 (c).
which can originate from the
Governor or a designated
Governor or a designated
representative.
representative.
Page 28The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
Definitions (No existing language defining Recommend following language:
11.2 (i) “SECC”.)
A State Emergency Communications
Committee (SECC) is a body
recognized by the Federal
Communications Commission that
includes but is not necessarily limited
to EAS stakeholders such as EAS
Participants, emergency management
officials, public safety agencies that
issue EAS messages, and National
Weather Service entities.
Responsibilities of an SECC include
but also may not be limited to
planning EAN dissemination within
their respective jurisdictions,
developing and maintaining State
EAS plans and monitoring
assignments, informing the Chief,
Public Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau, of the FCC of State Plan and
monitoring assignment changes, and
liaison to other SECCs in other
geographical areas.
Page 29The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS The EAS Operating Handbook states Recommend following wording Reference to “authenticating”
Operating in summary form the actions to be changes: messages may be misleading and
Handbook taken by personnel at EAS Participant The EAS Operating Handbook states meaningless here in the context of
11.15 facilities upon receipt of an EAN, an in summary form the actions to be current day EAS. Proposed
EAT, tests, or State and Local Area taken by personnel at EAS Participant language makes authentication
alerts. It is issued by the FCC and facilities upon receipt of an EAN, an specific to provisions in state
contains instructions for the above EAT, tests, or State and Local Area plans.
situations. A copy of the Handbook alerts. It is issued by the FCC and
must be located at normal duty contains instructions for the above
positions or EAS equipment locations situations. A copy of the Handbook
when an operator is required to be on must be located at normal duty
duty and be immediately available to positions or EAS equipment locations
staff responsible for authenticating when an operator is required to be on
messages and initiating actions. duty and be immediately available to
staff responsible to the EAS
Participant for maintaining
compliance of EAS equipment,
authenticating messages and initiating
actions related to all EAS activities,
and for any authentication procedures
specified by the EAS Participant’s
State EAS Plan.
Page 30The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (a) National Primary (NP) is a source Recommend substituting the current
Designations of EAS Presidential messages. 11.18 (a) language with the current
11.18 (a) 11.2 (g) Definition for NP, with the
indicated changes.
(a) National Primary (NP) is a
component of the Stations that are the
Pprimary Eentry Ppoint System (PEP)
for Presidential messages delivered by
FEMA. These stations entry points are
responsible for broadcasting relaying
a Presidential alert to the public and to
State Primary stations EAS
Participants within their broadcast
range or connected to a designated
PEP network.
Page 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (b) Local Primary (LP) is a source of Recommend following wording
Designations EAS Local Area messages. An LP changes:
11.18 (b) source is responsible for coordinating (b) Local Primary (LP) is a source of
the carriage of common emergency EAS Local Area messages. An LP
messages from sources such as the source is responsible for coordinating
National Weather Service or local relaying the carriage content of
emergency management offices as common authorized emergency tests
specified in its EAS Local Area Plan. and messages from sources such as
If it is unable to carry out this the National Weather Service or local
function, other LP sources in the emergency management offices as
Local Area may be assigned the specified in its EAS Local Area Plan.
responsibility as indicated in State and If it is unable to carry out this
Local Area Plans. LP sources are function, other LP sources in the
assigned numbers (LP-1, 2, 3, etc.) in Local Area may be assigned the
the sequence they are to be monitored responsibility as indicated in State and
by other broadcast stations in the Local Area Plans. LP sources are
Local Area. assigned numbers (LP-1, 2, 3, etc.) in
the sequence they are to be monitored
by other broadcast stations EAS
Participants in the Local Area.
EAS (c) State Primary (SP) is a source of Recommend adding the word “A”.
Designations EAS State messages. These messages (c) A State Primary (SP) is a source of
11.18 (c) can originate from the Governor or a EAS State messages. These messages
designated representative in the State can originate from the Governor or a
Emergency Operating Center (EOC) designated representative in the State
or State Capital. Messages are sent via Emergency Operating Center (EOC)
the State Relay Network. or State Capital. Messages are sent via
the State Relay Network.
Page 32The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (d) State Relay (SR) is a source of Recommend adding the word “A”.
Designations EAS State messages. It is part of the (d) A State Relay (SR) is a source of
11.18 (d) State Relay Network and relays EAS State messages. It is part of the
National and State common State Relay Network and relays
emergency messages into Local National and State common
Areas. emergency messages into Local
Areas.
EAS (e) Participating National (PN) Recommend moving the one-sentence
Designations sources transmit EAS National, State section 11.41 Participation in EAS
11.18 (e) or Local Area messages. The EAS into this definition. That is the green
transmissions of PN sources are highlighted text.
intended for direct public reception. (e) All EAS Participants specified in
§11.11 are categorized as Participating
National (PN) sources, and must have
immediate access to an EAS
Operating Handbook. Participating
National PN sources transmit EAS
National, State or Local Area
messages. The EAS transmissions of
PN sources are intended for direct
public reception.
Page 33The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
State and EAS plans contain guidelines which Recommend wording change:
Local Area must be followed by EAS Participants' EAS plans contain guidelines which
plans and personnel, emergency officials, and must be followed by EAS Participants'
FCC National Weather Service (NWS) personnel, emergency officials, and
Mapbook personnel to activate the EAS. The National Weather Service (NWS)
11.21 plans include the EAS header codes personnel to activate the EAS. The
and messages that will be transmitted plans include the EAS header codes
by key EAS sources (NP, LP, SP and and messages that will be transmitted
SR). State and local plans contain relayed by key EAS sources (NP, LP,
unique methods of EAS message SP and SR). State and local plans
distribution such as the use of the contain unique methods of EAS
Radio Broadcast Data System message distribution such as the use
(RBDS). The plans must be reviewed of the Radio Broadcast Data System
and approved by the Chief, Public (RBDS). The plans must be reviewed
Safety and Homeland Security and approved by the Chief, Public
Bureau, prior to implementation to Safety and Homeland Security
ensure that they are consistent with Bureau, prior to implementation to
national plans, FCC regulations, and ensure that they are consistent with
EAS operation. national plans, FCC regulations, and
EAS operation.
Page 34The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
State and (a) The State EAS Plan contains Recommend following wording
Local Area procedures for State emergency changes:
plans and management and other State officials,
FCC the NWS, and EAS Participants' (a) States that want to use the EAS shall
Mapbook personnel to transmit emergency submit a State EAS Plan. The State
11.21 (a) information to the public during a EAS Plan should be developed and
State emergency using the EAS. State maintained by the State Emergency
EAS Plans should include a data table, Communications Committee (SECC).
in computer readable form, clearly The State EAS Plan contains procedures
showing monitoring assignments and for State emergency management and
other State officials, the NWS, and EAS
the specific primary and backup path
Participants' personnel to transmit relay
for emergency action notification
emergency information to the public
(EAN) messages that are formatted in
during a State emergency using the
the EAS Protocol (specified in
EAS. State EAS Plans should include a
§11.31), from the PEP to each station
data table, in computer readable form,
in the plan. If a state's emergency alert
clearly showing monitoring assignments
system is capable of initiating EAS
and the specific primary and backup
messages formatted in the Common
path for emergency action notification
Alerting Protocol (CAP), its State
(EAN) messages that are formatted in
EAS Plan must include specific and
the EAS Protocol (specified in §11.31),
detailed information describing how
from the PEP to each station EAS
such messages will be aggregated and
Participant in the plan. If a state's
distributed to EAS Participants within emergency alert system is capable of
the state, including the monitoring initiating EAS messages formatted in
requirements associated with the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP)
distributing such messages. its State EAS Plan must include specific
and detailed information describing how
such messages will be aggregated and
distributed to EAS Participants within
the state, including the monitoring
requirements associated with
distributing such messages.
Page 35The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
State and (c) The FCC Mapbook is based on the Recommend dropping this paragraph: We recommend in this report that
Local Area above plans. It organizes all broadcast (c) The FCC Mapbook is based on the all references to an FCC Mapbook
plans and stations and cable systems according above plans. It organizes all broadcast in Part 11 be eliminated. The
FCC to their State, EAS Local Area, and stations and cable systems according Mapbook is no longer necessary as
Mapbook EAS designation. to their State, EAS Local Area, and a mandated element of plan
11.21 (c) EAS designation. submission if the Commission
follows the recommendations of
our report and a federal EAS
monitoring assignment database is
established.
Participation All EAS Participants specified in Recommend moving this 11.41 11.41 formerly detailed both PN
in EAS §11.11 are categorized as Participating language on PN to the 11.18 (e) EAS and NN. With NN now dropped,
11.41 National (PN) sources, and must have Designation description for PN, thus 11.41 is one sentence, which
immediate access to an EAS eliminating section 11.41. would be more useful as the intro
Operating Handbook. to 11.18 (e).
EAS code (d) EAS Participants must comply Recommend following wording Do to the elimination of EAS rule
and with the following monitoring changes: 11.44 EAS Message Priorities and
Attention requirements: the abandoning of manual
Signal (1) With respect to monitoring for (d) EAS Participants must comply monitoring, the last sentence in
Monitoring EAS messages that are formatted in with the following monitoring this section is no longer germane.
requirements accordance with the EAS Protocol, requirements:
11.52 (d) (1) EAS Participants must monitor two (1) With respect to monitoring for
EAS sources. The monitoring EAS messages that are formatted in
assignments of each broadcast station accordance with the EAS Protocol,
and cable system and wireless cable EAS Participants must monitor two
system are specified in the State EAS EAS sources. The monitoring
Plan and FCC Mapbook. They are assignments of each EAS Participant
developed in accordance with FCC broadcast station and cable system and
monitoring priorities. wireless cable system are specified in
the State EAS Plan and FCC
Mapbook. They are developed in
accordance with FCC monitoring
priorities.
Page 36The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS code (4) If the required EAS message Recommend following wording We feel that the SECC is on the
and sources cannot be received, alternate changes: ground locally and in a better
Attention arrangements or a waiver may be position to determine the need and
Signal obtained by written request to the (4) If the required EAS message consequence of EAS Participants
Monitoring Chief, Public Safety and Homeland sources cannot be received, alternate deviating from the EAS
requirements Security Bureau. In an emergency, a arrangements changes or a waiver Monitoring Assignments in the
11.52 (d) (4) waiver may be issued over the may be requested, in writing, and State EAS Plan.
telephone with a follow up letter to submitted to obtained by written
confirm temporary or permanent request to the State Emergency
reassignment. Communications Committee (SECC),
which shall inform the Chief, Public
Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau. In an emergency, a waiver
may be issued over the telephone with
a follow up letter or email to confirm
temporary or permanent reassignment.
Page 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (a) The EAS may be activated at the Recommend the following insertion:
operation State and Local Area levels by EAS (a) The EAS may be activated at the
during a Participants at their discretion for day- State and Local Area levels by EAS
State or to-day emergency situations posing a Participants at their discretion in
Local Area threat to life and property. Examples accordance with any existing State
emergency of natural emergencies which may and Local EAS Plans for day-to-day
11.55 (a) warrant state EAS activation are: emergency situations posing a threat
Tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, to life and property. Examples of
earthquakes, heavy snows, icing natural emergencies which may
conditions, widespread fires, etc. warrant state EAS activation are:
Man-made emergencies warranting Tornadoes, floods, hurricanes,
state EAS activation may include: earthquakes, heavy snows, icing
Toxic gas leaks or liquid spills, conditions, widespread fires, etc.
widespread power failures, industrial Man-made emergencies warranting
explosions, and civil disorders. state EAS activation may include:
Toxic gas leaks or liquid spills,
widespread power failures, industrial
explosions, and civil disorders.
EAS (b) EAS operations must be conducted Recommend the following deletion: SECCs should be free to develop
operation as specified in State and Local Area (b) EAS operations must be conducted their State EAS Plans as best suits
during a EAS Plans. The plans must list all as specified in State and Local Area their situation.
State or authorized entities participating in the EAS Plans. The plans must list all
Local Area State or Local Area EAS. authorized entities participating in the
emergency State or Local Area EAS.
11.55 (b)
Page 38The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (c) Immediately upon receipt of a Recommend dropping paragraphs (c) These are holdovers from EBS.
operation State or Local Area EAS message that (1), (c) (2), and (c) (3). All EAS Participants already have
during a has been formatted in the EAS their Monitoring Assignments in
State or Protocol, EAS Participants (1) State Relay (SR) sources monitor the State EAS Plan, so these
Local Area participating in the State or Local the State Relay Network or follow the statements are no longer
emergency Area EAS must do the following: State EAS plan for instructions from applicable and may not apply in
11.55 (c) the State Primary (SP) source. every situation.
(1), (2), and (1) State Relay (SR) sources monitor
(3) the State Relay Network or follow the (2) Local Primary (LP) sources
State EAS plan for instructions from monitor the Local Area SR sources or
the State Primary (SP) source. follow the State EAS plan for
instructions.
(2) Local Primary (LP) sources
monitor the Local Area SR sources or (3) Participating National (PN)
follow the State EAS plan for sources monitor the Local Area LP
instructions. sources for instructions.
(3) Participating National (PN)
sources monitor the Local Area LP
sources for instructions.
Page 39The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (4) EAS Participants participating in Recommend the following deletion: “discontinue normal
operation the State or Local Area EAS must (4) EAS Participants participating in programming” is a holdover from
during a discontinue normal programming and the State or Local Area EAS must EBS.
State or follow the procedures in the State and discontinue normal programming and
Local Area Local Area Plans. Analog and digital follow the procedures in the State and This paragraph becomes the new
emergency television broadcast stations must Local Area Plans. Analog and digital (c) (1) as the first paragraph under
11.55 (c) (4) transmit all EAS announcements television broadcast stations must “…EAS Participants participating
visually and aurally as specified in transmit all EAS announcements in the State or Local Area EAS
§11.51(a) through (e) and 73.1250(h) visually and aurally as specified in must do the following:”
of this chapter, as applicable; analog §11.51(a) through (e) and 73.1250(h)
cable systems, digital cable systems, of this chapter, as applicable; analog It starts off with the appropriate
and wireless cable systems must cable systems, digital cable systems, statement: “EAS Participants
transmit all EAS announcements and wireless cable systems must participating in the State or Local
visually and aurally as specified in transmit all EAS announcements Area EAS must follow the
§11.51(g) and (h); and DBS providers visually and aurally as specified in procedures in the State and Local
must transmit all EAS announcements §11.51(g) and (h); and DBS providers Area Plans.”
visually and aurally as specified in must transmit all EAS announcements
§11.51(j). EAS Participants providing visually and aurally as specified in
foreign language programming should §11.51(j). EAS Participants providing
transmit all EAS announcements in foreign language programming should
the same language as the primary transmit all EAS announcements in
language of the EAS Participant. the same language as the primary
language of the EAS Participant.
Page 40The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
EAS (5) Upon completion of the State or Recommend dropping this paragraph This is a holdover from EBS and
operation Local Area EAS transmission (c) (5). should be dropped.
during a procedures, resume normal (5) Upon completion of the State or
State or programming until receipt of the cue Local Area EAS transmission
Local Area from the SR or LP sources in your procedures, resume normal
emergency Local Area. At that time begin programming until receipt of the cue
11.55 (c) (5) transmitting the common emergency from the SR or LP sources in your
message received from the above Local Area. At that time begin
sources. transmitting the common emergency
message received from the above
sources.
Tests of (3) National tests. (i) All EAS Recommend following wording “PEP/NP stations” should be
EAS Participants shall participate in changes: replaced by “the PEP system”,
procedures national tests as scheduled by the (3) National tests. (i) All EAS which is defined in section 11.2 as
11.61 (a) (3) Commission in consultation with the Participants shall participate in “a nationwide network of
Federal Emergency Management national tests as scheduled by the broadcast stations and other
Agency (FEMA). Such tests will Commission in consultation with the entities connected with
consist of the delivery by FEMA to Federal Emergency Management government activation points.”
PEP/NP stations of a coded EAS Agency (FEMA). Such tests will
message, including EAS header codes, consist of the delivery by FEMA to
Attention Signal, Test Script, and PEP/NP stations the PEP system of a
EOM code. All other EAS coded EAS message, including EAS
Participants will then be required to header codes, Attention Signal, Test
relay that EAS message. The coded Script, and EOM code. All other EAS
message shall utilize EAS test codes Participants will then be required to
as designated by the Commission's relay that the entire EAS message.
rules. The coded message shall utilize EAS
test codes as designated by the
Commission's rules.
Page 41The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
Rule Current Language Suggested Revised Language Notes
Tests of (4) EAS activations and special tests. Recommend following wording
EAS The EAS may be activated for changes:
procedures emergencies or special tests at the (4) EAS activations and special tests.
11.61 (a) (4) State or Local Area level by an EAS The EAS may be If the EAS is
Participant instead of the monthly or activated for emergencies or special
weekly tests required by this section. tests at the State or Local Area level
To substitute for a monthly test, by an EAS Participant, that activation
activation must include transmission may substitute for instead of the
of the EAS header codes, Attention monthly or weekly tests required by
Signal, emergency message and EOM this section. To substitute for a
code and comply with the visual monthly test, activation must include
message requirements in §11.51. To transmission of the EAS header codes,
substitute for the weekly test of the Attention Signal, emergency message
EAS header codes and EOM codes in and EOM code and comply with the
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, visual message requirements in
activation must include transmission §11.51. To substitute for the weekly
of the EAS header and EOM codes. test of the EAS header codes and
Analog and digital television EOM codes in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of
broadcast stations, analog cable this section, activation must include
systems, digital cable systems, transmission of the EAS header and
wireless cable systems, and DBS EOM codes. Analog and digital
providers shall comply with the aural television broadcast stations, analog
and visual message requirements in cable systems, digital cable systems,
§11.51. Special EAS tests at the State wireless cable systems, and DBS
and Local Area levels may be providers shall comply with the aural
conducted on daily basis following and visual message requirements in
procedures in State and Local Area §11.51. Special EAS tests at the State
EAS plans. and Local Area levels may be
conducted on daily basis following
procedures in State and Local Area
EAS plans.
Page 42The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
6.3 Appendix 3-Definitions of Terms Recommended for Use in State
EAS Plans
Definitions of the following terms are meant as guidance for SECCs in applying the use of these terms in the drafting
of State EAS Plans, in order to gain uniformity in the understanding and application of such terms across all State
EAS Plans. The inclusion of definitions of these terms in this report should not be construed as a recommendation
for their inclusion in the FCC EAS Part 11 rules. These definitions are presented here solely as a guideline for
SECC use.
Activate (verb) Describes the process of originating the transmission of the EAS header codes, attention
signal, emergency message and EOM code that also complies with the visual message
requirements of 47 C.F.R. § 79.2(a)(2).
Authority (noun) Describes the source of responsibility and the right to activate or request activation of an
emergency alert on the relay network, utilizing the traditional or legacy EAS dissemination or the
Common Alerting Protocol. The source of authority for EAS resides with federal, state, county
and local emergency management and public safety officials as outlined in EAS plans.
Capability (noun) An attribute describing the technical ability of an entity, possessing the equipment to
activate code and voice a legacy EAS or CAP message, upon the request of an authorized
entity, on the relay network. This ability may reside with a government agency, a CAP vendor
who provides this service or a broadcast entity. This relationship structure is outlined in the EAS
plan.
Closed Circuit (noun) Tests that do not reach the public, but do allow for reception by EAS participants for
Test logging and evaluation.
Gatekeeper (noun) The entity, as identified in the EAS plan, having ultimate authority to request activation
(e.g. state/local emergency management, state police and local public safety) and the
responsibility to insure that the requested activations meet the standards of acceptability as to
not saturate the system with unwarranted activations.
Initiate (verb) To begin an action that results in activation for legacy EAS or CAP messages, by or at the
request of federal, state, county and local emergency management and public safety officials as
outlined in EAS plans.
Originator (noun) Refers to the authorized party who requests the activation of the legacy EAS or CAP
message. It specifically refers to the ORG code outlined in 47 C.F.R. § 11.31.
Relay Network (noun) Describes the links and paths from warning origination points to EAS Participants for
legacy EAS and CAP messages.
Response (verb) A descriptive for the actions an emergency management asset brings to bear to manage
an emergency to a quick and successful outcome.
Resource (noun) A descriptive for a supply that is drawn upon of materials, personnel or information that
are managed during an emergency to help bring the event to a fast and successful outcome.
Page 43The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 3-EAS Plans
March 2014
Final Report
6.4 Appendix 4-Process Flowchart for State and Local Emergency
Messages for Use in State EAS Plans
Page 44
