PDF Content from https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Communications%2520SRMA%2520Fact%2520Sheet_508.pdf:
INTRODUCTION TO THE
COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
The Communications Sector is an integral component of the U.S. economy, underlying the operations of all
businesses, public safety organizations, and government. Presidential Policy Directive 21 identifies the
Communications Sector as critical because it provides an “enabling function” across all critical infrastructure sectors.
Over the last 25 years, the Sector has evolved from being predominantly a provider of voice services into a diverse,
competitive, and interconnected industry using terrestrial, satellite, and wireless transmission systems. The
transmission of these services has become interconnected; satellite, wireless, and wireline providers depend on each
other to carry and terminate their traffic, and companies routinely share facilities and technology to ensure
interoperability.
COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR COLLABORATION, RESOURCES, AND TRAINING
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) offers many resources to help owners and operators
manage risks, improve security, and aid the implementation and execution of protective and response measures
across the Communications Sector. This fact sheet lists a sampling of sector collaboration mechanisms, resources,
and training materials. Unless otherwise noted, additional information can be found on the CISA website at
cisa.gov/communications-sector.
Sector Coordinating Council (SCC) and Cybersecurity Framework is used to Cyber Stormis the Department of
Working Groups convene regularly to share improve cyber resilience. CISA connects Homeland Security’s (DHS) flagship,
information and develop tools, guidelines, organizations with public and private biennial exercise series, which provides an
and products to address risks, sector resources that align to the opportunity for the Federal Government,
vulnerabilities, and emerging issues to the Framework’s five function areas: state, local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT)
Communications Sector. For information identify, protect, detect, respond, and organizations, and the private sector to
regarding the Communications SCC, visit recover. Learn more at address cyber incident response as a
comms-scc.org/. nist.gov/cyberframework. community. Now on its sixth iteration, each
exercise in the series has simulated the
Government Coordinating Council (GCC) Cyber Resource Hub is used to help discovery of, and response to, a
and Working Groups composed of various agencies make data-informed risk coordinated C/I cyberattack.
federal departments, the GCC coordinates decisions. CISA may conduct analysis of
with the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure assessment data providing this Cyber Planning Support includes subject
Security Agency (CISA) to identify and information to partners. The Hub can matter expert-run Cyber Planning
address shared priorities and initiatives help the broader cybersecurity Workshops, which are available to assist
that impact the Communications Sector. community gain visibility with stakeholders with developing and revising
For information regarding the GCC, visit vulnerability trends, adversarial integrated cyber plans.
cisa.gov/communications-sector-council- activities, and effective mitigations to
charters-and-membership. implement for better protection of their Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management is
networks. Learn more at cisa.gov/cyber- a course created to educate the learner
National Security Telecommunications resource-hub. about cyber supply chain risk management
Advisory Committee (NSTAC) helps the (C-SCRM) and the role it plays within our
industry inform government decisions Cybersecurity and Physical Security society today. More specifically, the course
about National Security/Emergency Convergence is guidance on converging teaches learners how to securely provision,
Preparedness (NS/EP) communications. cybersecurity and physical security analyze, oversee and govern, protect, and
NSTAC provides the president with functions to better position defend a supply chain.
recommendations intended to ensure vital organizations to mitigate cyber-physical
Critical Infrastructure Training information
telecommunication connections are threats. To learn more, visit
can be found at cisa.gov/critical-
operational during times of crisis and to cisa.gov/publication/cybersecurity-and-
infrastructure-training. For more
help the Federal Government maintain a physical-security-convergence.
information on cyber exercises, contact
reliable, secure, and resilient national
ncciccustomerservice@hq.dhs.gov.
communications posture. Visit
cisa.gov/nstac.INTRODUCTION TO THE COMMUNICATIONS
SECTOR RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTOR PROFILE
The Communications Sector is both diverse and resilient with a strong, well-refined focus on risk management, long-
established processes and procedures for network security, and rapid response and recovery under all hazards to
assure the continued operation of vital communications. The infrastructure includes broadcasting, cable, satellite,
wireless, and wireline capabilities, as well as the transport networks that support the Internet and other key
information systems.
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
As more devices connect to public communication networks, service firms can provide more types of device-
specific services over those networks. The Communications Sector architecture model in the figure below serves
as a representation of the collective infrastructure, which illustrates at least five major ways to access the
numerous voice, video, and data services on the core network: broadcasting, cable, satellite, wireless, and
wireline networks.
While the Communications Sector has few significant dependencies, other critical infrastructure sectors are
dependent on the Communications Sector. As such, the Communications Sector is one of the few sectors that can
affect all other sectors. At a minimum, each sector depends on services from the Communications Sector to
support its operations and associated day-to-day communication needs for corporate and organizational networks
and services (e.g., internet connectivity, voice services, and video teleconferencing capabilities). Some sectors
have even more significant dependencies on the Communications Sector beyond these routine operations.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Contact the Communications Sector Management Team at CommunicationsSector@cisa.dhs.gov or learn more at
cisa.gov/sector-specific-agencies. For additional information about the Communications Sector, view the
Communications Sector-Specific Plan at cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/nipp-ssp-communications-
2015-508.pdf.
