HTML Content from https://www.gao.gov/topics/telecommunications:
U.S. GAO - Telecommunications Skip to main content U.S. Government Accountability Office Menu Reports & Testimonies Reports & Testimonies Recommendations Database Month in Review Order Copies Restricted Reports View Topics View Agencies Bid Protests & Appropriations Law Bid Protests & Appropriations Law Bid Protests Appropriations Law Federal Vacancies Reform Act Congressional Review Act Other Legal About About What GAO Does U.S. Comptroller General Careers Contact Us For Congress Press Center Careers Blog Breadcrumb Home View Topics Telecommunications Image Telecommunications Jump To: Jump To Elder Abuse Services for Older Adults State and Local-Level Drivers and Trends State and Local Fiscal Projections Federal Borrowing Managing the Debt Summary of Funding Provisions Auditing the Government's Books Unpacking the Financial Report Highlights Recommendations Background About This Work About This Work Topics Trends About the Center Why It's High Risk What Remains To Be Done Key Reports Newest COVID-Related Reports AI Use Cases Flood Insurance Past Pandemic-Related Reports CARES Act Oversight Reports All COVID-19 Reports Report Suspected Fraud Subjects How to Get Notified Past Reports Public Health Threats Explore the FY 2022 and 2023 Funds Status of FY22 Projects Lessons Learned Agency Reports Recent Reports Recommendations Supplemental Material Full Report Additional Data View Decision Downloads Previously Identified Actions Related Pages Associated Agencies Tough Choices and Opportunities Ahead Americas Fiscal Future Key Areas Retirement Security Key Areas Current List About The High Risk List Area Ratings Previous High Risk Products Search Federal Vacancies Past Federal Vacancies Violation Letters About the Yellow Book Advisory Council Related Resources Comment Letters Related Publications Contacts and Resources Major Issues Facing the Nation Meeting Strategic Challenges Additional Resources Resources Mission Teams Operations and Staff Offices Organization Chart Why a Career at GAO? Am I Qualified? Company Culture Reasonable Accommodations Video Gallery Paid Internships Student Volunteers Professional Development Program Advancement Executive Candidate Program Summer Associates Externships Benefits Contacts Priority Open Recommendation Letters Key Resources Major Issues Downloadable Resources How Could Federal Debt Affect You? GAO Contacts Drivers Interest Sustainability What Needs to Be Done? Technology Assessments Science & Tech Spotlights Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Related Reports Performance Audits Image Recent Reports Telecommunications: Administration of Universal Service Programs Is Consistent with Selected FCC Requirements GAO-24-106967 Published:  Jul 23, 2024 Publicly Released: Aug 22, 2024 Spectrum Management: Key Practices Could Help Address Challenges to Improving Receiver Performance GAO-24-106325 Published:  Jul 18, 2024 Publicly Released: Jul 18, 2024 Tribal Broadband: Additional Assistance to Recipients Would Better Support Implementation of $3 Billion in Federal Grants GAO-24-106541 Published:  Jun 24, 2024 Publicly Released: Jun 24, 2024 Broadband Deployment: Agencies Should Take Steps to Better Meet Deadline for Processing Permits GAO-24-106157 Published:  Apr 10, 2024 Publicly Released: Apr 10, 2024 Spectrum IT Modernization: Incorporating Leading Practices Could Improve Planning Effort GAO-24-106634 Published:  Mar 19, 2024 Publicly Released: Mar 19, 2024 Broadband Infrastructure: Middle-Mile Grant Program Lacked Timely Performance Goals and Targeted Measures GAO-24-106131 Published:  Oct 19, 2023 Publicly Released: Oct 19, 2023 View More Reports Open Recommendations Spectrum Management: Key Practices Could Help Address Challenges to Improving Receiver Performance GAO-24-106325 Jul 18, 2024 Show 4 Open Recommendations Agency Affected Recommendation Status Federal Communications Commission The Chair of FCC should define measurable goals related to implementing the spectrum management principles outlined in FCC's April 2023 policy statement. (Recommendation 1) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. Federal Communications Commission The Chair of FCC should identify strategies and resources necessary to achieve goals related to implementing the spectrum management principles outlined in FCC's April 2023 policy statement. (Recommendation 2) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. Federal Communications Commission The Chair of FCC should identify internal and external factors that could affect FCC achieving goals related to implementing the spectrum management principles outlined in its April 2023 policy statement. These factors should inform FCC's efforts to develop strategies for achieving its goals. (Recommendation 3) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The NTIA Administrator should assess current information and evidence sources related to federal receiver performance and identify and collect additional information as appropriate. Such information and evidence should align with and address broader spectrum efficiency efforts including objectives outlined in the National Spectrum Strategy and FCC and NTIA's MOU. (Recommendation 4) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. Tribal Broadband: Additional Assistance to Recipients Would Better Support Implementation of $3 Billion in Federal Grants GAO-24-106541 Jun 24, 2024 Show 3 Open Recommendations Agency Affected Recommendation Status National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Administrator of NTIA should provide technical assistance throughout the funding period to support recipients that are unable to implement their financial sustainability plans. (Recommendation 1) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Administrator of NTIA should report to Congress on the resources necessary to ensure the financial sustainability of TBCP infrastructure projects. (Recommendation 2) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Administrator of NTIA should include all key technical assistance for the Tribal Broadband Connectivity Programs environmental review process in a single location on NTIA's website. (Recommendation 3) Open When we confirm what actions the agency has taken in response to this recommendation, we will provide updated information. Broadband Deployment: Agencies Should Take Steps to Better Meet Deadline for Processing Permits GAO-24-106157 Apr 10, 2024 Show 6 Open Recommendations Agency Affected Recommendation Status Bureau of Land Management The Director of BLM should develop controls to ensure BLM data are sufficiently accurate and complete to track processing times for all communications use applications. (Recommendation 1) Open In the 180-day letter GAO received on July 9, 2024, the Department of Interior agreed with the recommendation and indicated that the Bureau of Land Management would work to develop data standards and devise a report that can accurately track processing times for communications use permit applications by January 31, 2026. Forest Service The Chief of the Forest Service should develop controls to ensure Forest Service data are sufficiently accurate and complete to track processing times for all communications use applications. (Recommendation 2) Open The Department of Agriculture agreed with the recommendation and indicated that the agency would create a plan to address controls and factors related to the delays in processing communications use permits. Bureau of Land Management The Director of BLM should continue to analyze the factors that contribute to delays in processing communications use applications as they occur and take actions to address those factors. (Recommendation 3) Open In the 180-day letter GAO received on July 9, 2024, the Department of Interior agreed with this recommendation and indicated that the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) would analyze the factors and processes that contribute to delays in authorizing communications use applications and develop recommendations on how to resolve the issues. Following the identification process, BLM will develop system modifications to address the delays and issue policy. The Department of Interior also indicated that the policy would also include guidance on how to document and handle issues related to proponent delays that affect the processing time. Interior indicated that it planned to complete these steps by January 31, 2026. Forest Service The Chief of the Forest Service should continue to analyze the factors that contribute to delays in processing communications use applications as they occur, as well as the efficacy of the actions the agency has taken to address those factors, and take additional actions as necessary. (Recommendation 4) Open The Department of Agriculture agreed with the recommendation and indicated that the agency would create a plan to address controls and factors related to the delays in processing communications use permits. Bureau of Land Management The Director of BLM should establish a method to alert staff to communications use applications at risk of exceeding the 270-day deadline. (Recommendation 5) Open In the 180-day letter GAO received on July 9, 2024, the Department of Interior agreed with the recommendation and indicated that the Bureau of Land Management would develop a standard report within its existing data system and issue appropriate policy to track the processing times for communications use applications. It also indicated that the report would include a method that notifies agency management when applications approach the 270-day deadline. The Department of Interior set a target completion date for these steps of January 31, 2026. Forest Service The Chief of the Forest Service should establish a method to alert staff to communications use applications at risk of exceeding the 270-day deadline. (Recommendation 6) Open The Department of Agriculture agreed with the recommendation and indicated that the agency would create a plan to address controls and factors related to the delays in processing communications use permits. Spectrum IT Modernization: Incorporating Leading Practices Could Improve Planning Effort GAO-24-106634 Mar 19, 2024 Show 4 Open Recommendations Agency Affected Recommendation Status National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Office of Spectrum Management should develop a high-quality reliable cost estimate that aligns with cost estimating best practices as defined in GAO's Cost Guide and Agile Guide for the IT modernization project. (Recommendation 1) Open NTIA concurred with this recommendation. As of March 2024, NTIA stated that it is in the process of completing a cost estimate in accordance with GAO cost estimating best practices and developing performance measures for the IT modernization project. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Office of Spectrum Management should develop a reliable integrated master schedule that aligns with scheduling best practices as defined in GAO's Schedule Assessment Guide and Agile Guide for the IT modernization project. (Recommendation 2) Open NTIA concurred with this recommendation. As of March 2024, NTIA stated that it had developed an overall plan for the project and would establish an integrated master schedule after it awards a contract for the IT modernization project. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Office of Spectrum Management should finalize its stakeholder management plan. The plan should document a regular meeting schedule for the IT modernization project to ensure covered agencies have the ability to request information and communicate on NTIA's IT modernization project. (Recommendation 3) Open NTIA agreed to implement this recommendation from our March 2024 report and has taken steps to do so. NTIA officials confirmed in May 2024 that it had completed a stakeholder management plan that, according to officials, addresses this recommendation. In November 2024, NTIA officials stated that NTIA is reviewing the plan and anticipates an updated version in December 2024. Upon receiving the updated version, we will assess the plan to determine whether it implements this recommendation. By documenting how it will regularly involve and communicate progress to external stakeholders in appropriate time intervals, NTIA can better ensure that it is effectively identifying stakeholders' requirements and managing fragmentation issues that might impair IT interoperability. National Telecommunications and Information Administration The Office of Spectrum Management should develop performance measures for the IT modernization project that clearly link with the project's established goals and have specified targets and time frames. (Recommendation 4) Open NTIA concurred with this recommendation. As of March 2024, NTIA stated that it is in the process of completing a cost estimate in accordance with GAO cost estimating best practices and developing performance measures for the IT modernization project. View More Recommendations Related Pages Related Spectrum Management GAO Contacts Carol C. Harris Director Information Technology and Cybersecurity harriscc@gao.gov Andrew Von Ah Director Physical Infrastructure VonAha@gao.gov Multimedia What is 5G? A GAO Science and Technology Explainer Tuesday, March 17, 2020 Transcript Podcasts Workforce Gaps May Slow Broadband and 5G Expansion Thursday, December 15, 2022 Transcript Why Do Some Communities Still Lack Broadband? Friday, October 30, 2020 Transcript 5G Development and Deployment Monday, June 29, 2020 Transcript Thumbnail Interactive Graphic INTERACTIVE GRAPHIC:  Wireless outages, 2009-2016 Thursday, December 14, 2017 Blog Post Will You Be Warned If There’s A Tsunami? More Can Be Done to Ensure The Public Receives Alerts Thursday, May 25, 2023 When you hear the word “tsunami,” you may first think about a disaster movie, or the international... Blog Post Closing the Digital Divide for the Millions of Americans without Broadband Wednesday, February 1, 2023 Broadband is critical to everyday activities like work, school, and health care. Yet, despite the... Receive GAO Updates Stay informed as we add new reports & testimonies. U.S. Government Accountability Office Column 1 Press Center Contact Us Inspector General Restricted Reports Column 2 Copyright & Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Sitemap Column 3 FOIA Requests Scam Alerts No FEAR Act Data Health Care Advisory Committees v3.6.1.7
