PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/advisory/csric/WG-4A-Final-Report.pdf:
March 2010 WORKING GROUP 4A
Best Practices for Reliable 9‐1‐1 and E9‐1‐1
Final Report
Final Report, submitted on 6/15/10CSRIC Working Group 4A – Best Practices for Reliable 9-1-1 and E9-1-1
Final Report Outline
1. Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
2. Introduction
2.1 Structure of CSRIC
2.2 Working Group 4A Members
3. Objectives, Scope and Methodology
3.1 Objective
3.2 Scope
3.3 Methodology
4. Background
5. Analysis, Findings, and Recommendations
5.1 Defining Geographic Coverage Areas for Public Safety Answering Points
5.1.1 Standards
5.1.2 Best Practices
5.1.3 Related Documentation
5.1.4 Gaps
5.1.5 Recommendations
5.2 Defining Network Diversity Requirements for Delivery of IP-enabled 9-1-1 and
Enhanced 9-1-1 Calls
5.2.1 Standards
5.2.2 Best Practices
5.2.3 Related Documentation
5.2.4 Gaps
5.2.5 Recommendations
5.3 Call-handling in the Event of Call Overflow or Network Outages
5.3.1 Standards
5.3.2 Best Practices
5.3.3 Related Documentation
5.3.4 Gaps
5.3.5 Recommendations
5.4 Public Safety Answering Point Certification and Testing Requirements
5.4.1 Standards
5.4.2 Best Practices
5.4.3 Related Documentation
5.4.4 Gaps
25.4.5 Recommendations
5.5 Validation Procedures for Inputting and Updating Location Information in
Relevant Databases
5.5.1 Standards
5.5.2 Best Practices
5.5.3 Related Documentation
5.5.4 Gaps
5.5.5 Recommendations
5.6 Format for Delivering Address Information to Public Safety Answering Points
5.6.1 Standards
5.6.2 Best Practices
5.6.3 Related Documentation
5.6.4 Gaps
5.6.5 Recommendations
6. Conclusions
7. Appendix
8. Acronym Descriptions
-----------------------------------------
1. Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The successful implementation of 9-1-1 and enhanced 9-1-1 (E9-1-1) for voice over IP (VoIP)
services depends on the availability of, and adherence to, industry standards and best practices.
In 2005, the FCC issued regulations requiring VoIP Service Providers (VSPs) to ensure that
consumers of interconnected VoIP service have access to 9-1-1 and E9-1-11. This capability is
now available in nearly all parts of the country2 (for fixed3 and nomadic4 interconnected VoIP
service) due in large part to the availability of industry standards and best practices. However, a
list of all currently applicable standards and best practices is not available in a single location.
1 In the Matter of IP-Enabled Services; E9-1-1 Requirements for IP-Enabled Service Providers, WC Docket Nos.
04-36 and 05-196, First Report and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, at ¶¶ 36-51, Rel. Jun. 3, 2005.
2 The following is California specific availability data, to be seen as an example only;
a) For 2009, 95% of all California’s Local Primary PSAPs are deployed with at least one VoIP Positioning Center
(VPC) (373 of 393).
b) For 2009, less than 1% of calls in CA are VoIP (145K are VoIP of the total 24.8M E911 calls).
3 In this context the term “fixed” refers to an IP end-point that cannot move, is always in same location and always
accesses a network from the same point (extracted from NENA Master Glossary of E9-1-1 Terms).
4 A user is said to be nomadic if they are constrained within an access network such that their location can be
represented as a definitive civic address for that network attachment. The user may move from one network
attachment to another but cannot maintain a session during that move (extracted from NENA Master Glossary of
E9-1-1 Terms).
3This report is a compilation of existing industry standards and best practices concerning the
implementation of 9-1-1 and E9-1-1 for interconnected VoIP services. It also identifies gaps that
need to be addressed and identifies the appropriate groups to address the gaps. The areas
covered in the report were originally identified in Section 101 of the New and Emerging
Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 (codified at 47 U.S.C. § 615a-1(h)) which required
the FCC to develop several best practices related to the implementation of 9-1-1 and E9-1-1
service for VoIP Service Providers. This report provides a list of best practices consistent with
the requirements of the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act.
2. Introduction
Section 101 of the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act (codified at 47
U.S.C. § 615a-1(h)) requires the FCC to develop several best practices related to the
implementation of 9-1-1 service for IP-enabled voice service providers, commonly known as
VoIP Service Providers. While the FCC was tasked with developing several best practices, a
significant amount of this information has already been developed. Therefore, Working Group
4A investigated and evaluated currently available 9-1-1 related VoIP standards and best practices
related to E9-1-1 for completeness and identified gaps, including challenges related to
implementation of such standards by interconnected VoIP Service Providers within the E9-1-1
system. This report presents the results of an evaluation of currently available standards and best
practices and recommends to CSRIC how to resolve any incomplete work and gaps and
identifies and recommends what groups should perform that work.
2.1 Structure of CSRIC
42.2 Working Group 4A Members
Working Group 4A consists of the following 25 members:
• Anand Akundi, Telcordia
• Steve Barclay, Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
• Tom Breen, AT&T
• James Byrd, Washington, DC Office of Unified Communications
• Ann Marie Cederberg, Qwest
• Craig Donaldson, Intrado
• Brian Fontes, National Emergency Number Association (NENA) (Working Group 4A
Co-Chair)
• John Garner, AT&T
• Roger Hixson, National Emergency Number Association (NENA)
• Tim Hogle, Sprint Nextel
• Randy Hughes, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Office of the CIO
• Doug Jones, Verizon
• Rick Kemper, CTIA
• Rick Krock, Alcatel-Lucent
• Danny Lovett, Charlotte-Mecklenberg Police Department
• John Merklinger, City of Rochester, NY
• Christian Militeau, Intrado
• Bob Moseley, Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)
• Peter Musgrove, Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) (Working
Group 4A Co-Chair)
• Steve O’Conor, West Palm Beach Police Department
• Donna Pena, State of California, 9-1-1 Office
• Greg Riddle, Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO),
International
• Greg Schumacher, Sprint
• Norbert Snobeck, U.S. Department of Agriculture
• Jerry Theuns, Motorola
3. Objectives, Scope and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The objective of Working Group 4A was to investigate and identify currently available standards
and best practices concerning the implementation of 9-1-1 and E9-1-1 for interconnected VoIP
services. Where no current standards or best practices are available, the objective of the report is
to identify gaps that need to be addressed and the appropriate groups to address the gaps.
53.2 Scope
The scope of this report is limited to standards and best practices related to the implementation of
9-1-1 and E9-1-1 service for fixed and nomadic VoIP Services. The report does not address any
issues related to implementation of 9-1-1 and E9-1-1 for mobile VoIP services and applications.5
The Working Group recognizes that mobile VoIP services and applications are becoming
increasingly available and 9-1-1 capabilities for such services must be considered. However, the
Working Group determined that mobile VoIP services were beyond the scope of this report
because currently there are no FCC 9-1-1/E9-1-1 requirements concerning mobile VoIP services
(which are beyond the reach of the FCC’s current rules applicable to interconnected VoIP
Service Providers). The Working Group also determined that any standards or best practices
related to the internal functions of 9-1-1 System Service Providers (SSPs) responsible for
completing 9-1-1 calls originated by a VoIP provider are beyond the scope of this report.
3.3 Methodology
To develop the contents of this report, Working Group 4A first determined the meaning and
scope of the six subjects identified in the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement
Act for which the FCC was directed to develop best practices. Once there was agreement upon
the meaning and scope of each subject, Working Group members researched existing 9-1-1
standards and best practices from any sources that may have applicability to the identified areas.
A list of current standards developed by the National Emergency Number Association (NENA),
the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS), the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF) and through the FCC’s Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC)
was created. Working group members discussed each of the identified standards to determine
their applicability to the areas identified in the New and Emerging Technologies 911
Improvement Act. Those current standards and best practices that were deemed applicable are
identified in this report. Standards or best practices that were beyond the Working Group’s
scope were omitted. Finally, based on this research and review, the Working Group was able to
determine where gaps exist and to recommend who should address the gaps.
4. Background
As described above, the catalyst for the work done by Working Group 4A was language included
in federal legislation directing the FCC to develop several best practices related to the
implementation of 9-1-1 and E9-1-1 service for VoIP Service Providers. Specifically, Section
101 of the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act (codified at 47 U.S.C. §
615a-1(h)) requires the FCC to develop several best practices related to the implementation of
IP-enabled voice service providers.6 The statute states as follows:
5 In the context of location information to support IP based emergency services: A user is said to be mobile if they
are able to change access points while preserving all existing sessions and services regardless of who is providing
the access network, and their location may be definitively represented by a geographic co-ordinates but only
indicatively represented by a civic address (extracted from NENA Master Glossary of E9-1-1 Terms).
6 As used in this document, the term IP-enabled voice service provider and Voice over-IP service provider are
synonymous.
6‘‘(h) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS.—The Commission shall work cooperatively
with public safety organizations, industry participants, and the E–911 Implementation
Coordination Office to develop best practices that promote consistency, where appropriate,
including procedures for—
‘‘(1) defining geographic coverage areas for public safety answering points;
‘‘(2) defining network diversity requirements for delivery of IP-enabled 9–1–1 and
enhanced 9-1-1 calls;
‘‘(3) call-handling in the event of call overflow or network outages;
‘‘(4) public safety answering point certification and testing requirements;
‘‘(5) validation procedures for inputting and updating location information in relevant
databases; and
‘‘(6) the format for delivering address information to public safety answering points.”
5. Analysis, Findings, and Recommendations
5.1 Defining Geographic Coverage Areas for Public Safety Answering Points
For the E9-1-1 system to properly function, every PSAP must have a jurisdictional service
boundary in order for originating service providers (wireline, wireless, VoIP) to determine where
to route calls. For nomadic VoIP7, which currently uses an interface method similar to CMRS
E9-1-1 service, boundaries are contained in GIS shape files that are utilized for 9-1-1 call
routing. However, some PSAPs that are not yet wireless E9-1-1 Phase II capable8 or lack a GIS
system may not have shape files. The process to develop and access shape files was a significant
problem with the initial deployment of VoIP E9-1-1 service.
5.1.1 Standards
The following standards already developed apply to this issue and should be implemented by
VoIP service providers:
02-010 NENA Standard Data Formats for ALI Data Exchange & GIS Mapping (see
sections on MSAG and GIS Model data)
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/data-formats-ALI-MSAG-GIS
This document sets forth NENA standard formats for data exchange between Service Providers
and Data Base Management System Providers, a GIS data model, a Data Dictionary, and formats
for data exchange between the ALI Database and PSAP Controller equipment.
02-014 NENA GIS Data Collection and Maintenance Standards
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/data/gis-data-collection-maintenance
7 Cable based VoIP uses civic addresses and interfaces to E9-1-1 similarly to wireline service, requiring only the
normal MSAG based routing control. Shape files are not needed for this form of VoIP.
8 As of March 2, 2010, 88.3% of 3,135 counties, covering 96.5% of the population, have PSAPs capable of
receiving Phase II wireless 9-1-1 calls. 94% of primary PSAPs are Phase II capable. (Source: NENA)
7This document is the NENA recommended standard for GIS data collection and GIS data
maintenance. The document is meant to provide PSAP management, vendors, and other
interested parties necessary guidelines for collecting and maintaining GIS data.
5.1.2 Best Practices
No current best practices were identified that apply to this issue.
5.1.3 Related Documentation
56-504 NENA VoIP Deployment and Operational Guidelines (see section 3.7)
-http://www.nena.org/operations/standards/voip-deployment-operational-guidelines
This document has been developed as a best practice for the deployment of VoIP E9-1-1 service.
As such, its primary goal is to set expectations and improve communications among the parties
involved in the deployment process. The intent of this document is to offer guidance to VoIP
Service Providers, 9-1-1 Governing Authorities and PSAP Managers/Administrators prior to and
during the process of VoIP E9-1-1 deployment. This document specifically addresses VoIP E9-
1-1 deployments using dynamic ALI. It does not cover static VoIP using traditional wireline
ALI.
57-001B “PSAPs Guide to GIS – NENA White Paper (addressing wireless E9-1-1
implementation issues)
-http://www.nena.org/standards/operations/psap-guide-gis
This paper includes information on how to best process wireless information coming into the
PSAP. Any PSAP that is now, or will be, receiving wireless calls will find this paper useful. This
focus of this paper is how to best utilize GIS for wireless calls in the PSAP.
NOTE: 57-001B is applicable herein, with the understanding that only the shape file generation
content is applicable to VoIP calls (the rest is wireless-specific).
5.1.4 Gaps
5.1.4.1 CSRIC WG 4A was unable to identify any existing Best Practices that apply
specifically to this item. This is seen as a gap that should be filled.
5.1.4.2 VoIP Geocoded Address Inaccuracies – Issue/Gap:
When a traditional 9-1-1 call handled by a VSP is received at the PSAP, sometimes the
latitude/longitude (lat/lon) does not correlate exactly to the actual address. Some
PSAPs may be receiving the VPC geocoded lat/lon with the VoIP calls from the
registered address of fixed and nomadic customers, but this has proved inaccurate in the
PSAP mapping equipment. At the PSAP, the CAD or GIS plots the lat/lon but
sometimes it does not align with the address provided.
WG 4A recognizes a need to update or create applicable documents to promote best
practices to avoid this situation.
The BP could be based on this example:
For VoIP class of service calls, the lat/lon geocoded from the subscriber address should
8not be sent to the PSAP, until a completely accurate and synchronized street layer is
commonly used between the PSAP and the VPC. This reduces confusion for the call
taker and only presents the most accurate and reliable information for dispatching.
5.1.4.3 Common Baseline Imagery for Routing and Mapping – Issue/Gap: VoIP routing is
based upon GIS and mapped jurisdictions which are not always accurately based upon
a common set of imagery. Currently 9-1-1 Authorities need to use self-obtained
imagery to align GIS maps with actual accurate data to align streets and jurisdictional
boundaries. This is costly and requires updates depending on the cultural development.
In addition, this common imagery can be used at the PSAP’s mapping equipment to
help with emergency response. Working in a win-win environment, National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency could provide timely and accurate imagery and in
return can obtain the accurate PSAP jurisdictional boundaries for their Homeland
Security Infrastructure Protection (HSIP) Program.
The BP could be based on this example:
Allow public safety authorities access to DHS – NGA (Dept. of Homeland Security –
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency) data that can be provided on a monthly basis
or as needed. Promote that 9-1-1 is of importance for public safety and to National
Intelligence.
5.1.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
5.2 Defining Network Diversity Requirements for Delivery of IP-enabled 9-1-1 and
Enhanced 9-1-1 Calls
There are numerous NENA and NRIC standards and best practices that address network
diversity. There are no known diversity requirements unique to VoIP service from the service
provider to the Selective Routing switch. Therefore current standards, though not written
specifically for VoIP, apply equally to VoIP. However, some NRIC best practices may need to
be updated to specifically refer to VoIP as type of originating service. From the Selective Router
to the PSAP, there is no need for VoIP only trunks since VoIP 9-1-1 calls route over current
trunk types. Therefore, standards and best practices for wireless or wireline 9-1-1 diversification
apply to VoIP as well.
5.2.1 Standards
The following existing standards apply to this issue and should be implemented by VoIP service
providers:
903-006 NENA Standards for E9-1-1 Call Congestion Management: NENA E9-1-1 Technical
Standard that defines network diversity requirements (see section 2.3)
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/e911-call-congestion-management
This document provides a framework for consideration of the various factors impacting the
management of call congestion and traffic engineering for E9-1-1 networks. A network reference
model is provided for use in referring to generic E9-1-1 network entities. This is followed by a
section that outlines generally accepted industry practices for traffic engineering for E9-1-1
networks. This document is intended to provide greater parity among all any type of E9-1-1 call,
regardless of the source of its origination (wireless, traditional landline, VoIP, PBX/MLTS, etc.).
57-001 Wireless E9-1-1 Overflow, Default and Diverse Routing Operational Standard
-http://www.nena.org/standards/operations/wireless-call-routing
This document was developed to provide guidance in the routing development associated with
wireless Phase I and Phase II deployment efforts. This document provides recommended
terminology definitions, describes each call routing scenario, and associated routing
recommendations.
NOTE: 57-001 is applicable for item 5.2 with the caveat that only the diverse routing content is
applicable to VoIP calls (the rest is wireless-specific).
03-008 NENA Standard for E9-1-1 Default Assignment and Call Routing Functions
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/e911-default-assignment-call-routing-
functions
This document provides an overview of various database and network specifications and
requirements related to Default Routing of 9-1-1 calls. It is intended to help local authority;
database and/or network administrators select a model for the development of standard default
routing arrangements. It identifies and defines methods used to assign defaults and route 9-1-1
calls when circumstances prevent normal selective routing.
08-001 NENA Interim VoIP Architecture for Enhanced 9-1-1 Services (i2) (see section 2.8)
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/voip/interim-voip-architecture-i2
This document is the NENA recommended standard for the i2 architecture to support the
interconnection of VoIP domains with the existing Emergency Services Network infrastructure
in support of the migration toward end-to-end emergency calling over VoIP networks between
callers and PSAPs.
5.2.2 Best Practices
The following existing best practices apply to this issue and VoIP Service Providers should
consider adopting them (although some may need modification to specifically include VoIP or
VSPs):
BP 7-7-0566
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider placing and maintaining 9-1-1 circuits
over diverse interoffice transport facilities (e.g., geographically diverse facility routes,
automatically invoked standby routing, diverse digital cross-connect system services, self-
1 0healing fiber ring topologies, or any combination thereof).
[Also see Gap statement 5.2.4 below.]
BP 7-7-0567
Network Operators and Service Providers should spread 9-1-1 circuits over similar pieces of
equipment to avoid single points of failure (SPOF). They should also mark each plug-in level
component and frame termination with a red tag to notify maintenance personnel that the
equipment is used for critical, essential services and is to be treated with a high level of care.
[Also see Gap statement 5.2.4 below.]
BP 7-7-0575
Network Operators and Service Providers should deploy Diverse Automatic Location
Identification systems used in Public Safety (e.g., Automatic Location Identification and Mobile
Positioning Center systems) in a redundant, geographically diverse fashion (i.e. two identical
ALI/MPC data base systems with mirrored data located in geographically diverse locations).
[Also see Gap statement 5.2.4 below.]
BP 7-7-3224
E9-1-1 Dedicated Trunking: Network Operators and Service Providers should use dedicated
Signaling System 7 (SS7) or Multi Frequency (MF) controlled trunk groups for the normal
routing of E9-1-1 calls from originating switching entities to E9-1-1 Selective Routers rather
than using shared Public Switched Telephone Network trunking.
5.2.3 Related Documentation
03-501 NENA Network Quality Assurance
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/network-quality-assurance
This Technical Information Document (TID) details NENA’s recommendations on how to
design and deploy fault tolerant networks that eliminate, to the greatest extent possible, single
points of failure that will prevent the successful routing of 9-1-1 calls. (See especially section 3)
03-508 NENA Impacts of Using a Common Trunk Group to Carry Calls of Multiple
Service Types Into a Legacy Selective Router
The purpose of this document is to discuss the impacts upon the E9-1-1 system when multiple
service types of E9-1-1 calls are delivered over one common E9-1-1 trunk group. PSAP and E9-
1-1 operations may be impacted if calls from multiple service types (i.e. wire-line, wireless,
WiFi, cable, etc) are combined on a single trunk group from a carrier’s or aggregator’s network
to the E9-1-1 service provider’s selective router or E9-1-1 tandem.
5.2.4 Gaps
The following gaps exist for this issue and should be addressed:
5.2.4.1 CSRIC WG 4A believes BP 7-7-0566, 7-7-0567 (and others) need to be reviewed and
investigated to determine applicability to VoIP, and then updated as needed to
specifically address VoIP and VSPs.
1 15.2.4.2 CSRIC WG 4A believes BP 7-7-0575 needs to be modified to clarify its applicability to
VoIP by stipulating that VoIP Positioning Center systems (VPC) should also be
considered as covered elements, along with ALI and MPC.
5.2.4.3 See section 5.4.4, ESGW Testing gap, which may also apply here.
5.2.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
5.3 Call-handling in the Event of Call Overflow or Network Outages
At a minimum VoIP service should be handled in the same manner and with the same quality of
service as other classes of service, including call overflow and network outage conditions.
5.3.1 Standards
The following existing standards apply to this issue and should be implemented by VoIP service
providers and their related ESGW network providers:
03-006 NENA Standard for E9-1-1 Call Congestion Management:
NENA E9-1-1 Technical Standard that defines network diversity requirements (see section 2.3)
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/e911-call-congestion-management
This document provides a framework for consideration of the various factors impacting the
management of call congestion and traffic engineering for E9-1-1 networks. A network reference
model is provided for use in referring to generic E9-1-1 network entities. This is followed by a
section that outlines generally accepted industry practices for traffic engineering for E9-1-1
networks.http://www.nena.org/media/File/NENAopsWirelessRoutingStandardfinal111804.pdf
03-008 NENA Standard for E9-1-1 Default Assignment and Call Routing Functions
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/e911-default-assignment-call-routing-
functions
This document provides an overview of various database and network specifications and
requirements related to Default Routing of 9-1-1 calls. It is intended to help local authority;
database and/or network administrators select a model in the development of standard default
routing arrangements. It identifies and defines methods used to assign defaults and route 9-1-1
calls when circumstances prevent normal selective routing.
57-001 Wireless E9-1-1 Overflow, Default and Diverse Routing Operational Standard
-http://www.nena.org/standards/operations/wireless-call-routing
This document was developed to provide guidance in the routing development associated with
wireless Phase I and Phase II deployment efforts. This document provides recommended
1 2terminology definitions, describes each call routing scenario, and associated routing
recommendations.
NOTE:57-001 is applicable for item 5.3 with the caveat that only the diverse routing content is
applicable to VoIP calls (the rest is wireless-specific).
5.3.2 Best Practices
The following best practices already developed apply to this issue and VoIP service providers
should consider adopting them (although some may need modification to specifically include
VoIP or VSPs):
BP 7-7-0574
Network Operators and Service Providers should remotely monitor and manage the 9-1-1
network components using network management controls, where available, to quickly restore 9-
1-1 service and provide priority repair during network failure events.
[Also see Gap statement 5.3.4 below.]
BP 7-7-0758
Network Operators and Service Providers should, upon restoration of service in the case of an
outage where 9-1-1 call completion is affected, make multiple test calls to the affected PSAP(s)
to ensure proper completion.
5.3.3 Related Documentation
03-501 NENA Network Quality Assurance
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/network/network-quality-assurance
This TID details NENA’s recommendations on how to design and deploy fault tolerant networks
that eliminate, as much as possible, single points of failure that will prevent the successful
routing of 9-1-1 calls. (See especially section 3)
56-504 NENA VoIP Deployment and Operational Guidelines: minimum requirements for
VoIP E9-1-1 Implementation Guidelines – defines minimum testing, training and technical
maintenance issues required for providers to interconnect to the E9-1-1 system (see especially
section3.7.3)
-http://www.nena.org/operations/standards/voip-deployment-operational-guidelines
This document has been developed as a best practice for the deployment of VoIP E9-1-1 service.
As such, its primary goal is to set expectations and improve communications among the parties
involved in the deployment process. The intent of this document is to offer guidance to VoIP
Service Providers, 9-1-1 Governing Authorities and PSAP Managers/Administrators prior to and
during the process of VoIP E9-1-1 deployment. This document specifically addresses VoIP E9-
1-1 deployments using dynamic ALI. It does not cover static VoIP using traditional wireline
ALI.
1 35.3.4 Gaps
The following gaps exist for this issue that should be addressed:
5.3.4.1 Upon CSRIC WG 4A‘s first look into NRIC BP 7-5-0569 it appeared that it may apply
to item 5.3 (Call-handling in the Event of Call Overflow or Network Outages).
However, further analysis determined this BP should not be applicable to any 9-1-1 call
delivery stakeholders “as written”. CSRIC WG 4A does not want any 9-1-1 call
delivery stakeholders, VSP or otherwise, bypassing acceptable congestion control
techniques. Therefore, this is a gap in the NRIC BPs, because it is not worded correctly
and needs to be updated.
5.3.4.2 CSRIC WG 4A believes BP 7-7-0574 (and others) need to be reviewed and
investigated to determine applicability to VoIP, and then updated as needed to
specifically address VoIP and VSPs
5.3.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
5.4 Public Safety Answering Point Certification and Testing Requirements
Minimum requirements and testing requirements are usually determined by local 9-1-1
governing authorities working in connection the 9-1-1 System Service Provider (SSP).
Generally, minimum requirements are established over an entire service area by the SSP, but
there may be additional requirements established by the 9-1-1 Governing Authority.
5.4.1 Standards
No existing standards were identified that apply to this issue.
5.4.2 Best Practices
The following best practices already developed apply to this issue and VoIP service providers
should consider adopting them (although some may need modification to specifically include
VoIP or VSPs):
BP 7-7-0577
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Agencies responsible for PSAP
operations should jointly and periodically test and verify that critical components (e.g., automatic
re-routes, PSAP Make Busy keys) included in contingency plans work as designed.
1 4NOTE: BP 7-7-0579, 7-7-0599, 7-7-3211 are also applicable, but highly redundant to 7-7-0577.
They all address disaster planning and testing of such plans on a routine basis. Perhaps those four
BPs should be reevaluated to see if they could be combined into one comprehensive BP covering
this subject. CSRIC WG 4A stops short of describing this as a “gap”, but does feel it deserves
consideration as other BP related gaps might be addressed in the future.
BP 7-7-0655
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers should coordinate hurricane and
other disaster restoration work with electrical and other utilities as appropriate.
BP 7-7-0780
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider including coordination information of
Public Safety Authorities when developing disaster restoration and prioritization plans.
NOTE: BP 7-7-0655 and 7-7-0780 don’t exactly fit item 5.4, but it appears to be the most
appropriate section.
5.4.3 Related Documentation
56-504 NENA VoIP Deployment and Operational Guidelines: minimum requirements for
VoIP E9-1-1 Implementation Guidelines – defines minimum testing, training and technical
maintenance issues required for providers to interconnect to the E9-1-1 system. (see sections 3.5
and 5.1)
-http://www.nena.org/operations/standards/voip-deployment-operational-guidelines
This document has been developed as a best practice for the deployment of VoIP E9-1-1 service.
As such, its primary goal is to set expectations and improve communications among the parties
involved in the deployment process. The intent of this document is to offer guidance to VoIP
Service Providers, 9-1-1 Governing Authorities and PSAP Managers/Administrators prior to and
during the process of VoIP E9-1-1 deployment. This document specifically addresses VoIP E9-
1-1 deployments using dynamic ALI. It does not cover static VoIP using traditional wireline
ALI.
ATIS-0500009: High Level Requirements for End-to-End Functional Testing (ESIF
Technical Report)
- http://www.atis.org/docstore/product.aspx?id=22695
This document concerns wireless (cellular) E9-1-1 testing, but does have information on testing
that relates to all elements of the emergency services network and the PSAP CPE/ALI network,
so some parts may be applicable to those common system elements also used by VoIP E9-1-1
service.
5.4.4 Gaps
The following gaps exist for this issue that should be addressed:
1 55.4.4.1 BP 7-7-0488 is not directly applicable to VoIP, but the concepts as written for wireless
can be applicable to VSPs. Therefore, this NRIC BP, like others really constitutes a gap
in the NRIC BPs because as written it is wireless specific. CSRIC WG 4A believes this
BP (and others) need to be reviewed and investigated to determine applicability to VoIP
and then updated as needed to specifically address VoIP and VSPs.
5.4.4.2 WG 4A recognizes a need for a new CSRIC sanctioned BP supporting the notion that
VSPs should consider following the NENA recommendation to test all ESQKs before
use. Such a BP should also address the gap surrounding the need for an up to date
provisioned ESQK list to allow the VPC operators to know which ESQKs to test.
5.4.4.3 VSP Campus Testing – Issue/Gap:
When campus or enterprise systems convert to VoIP, the customer address provisioning
performed by installers can be inaccurate and result in misrouted E9-1-1 calls. As such,
WG 4A recognizes a need to update or create applicable documents to promote best
practices for VoIP that are similarly used for legacy PBX environments, and encourage
VoIP service and equipment providers to perform additional testing for large or higher
risk environments. We recommend that VPCs include additional testing. The BP
should recognize that the Campus end user customer is an important stakeholder in this
effort, and should encourage them to participate in testing with the VSP and equipment
providers.
The BP could be based on this example:
VPCs can require additional testing for environments that have a high user capacity.
This immediately reduces the risk of misrouting a block of callers at a particular facility
and in turn reduces the liability for entities.
5.4.4.4 ESGW Testing – Issue/Gap:
When a VPC changes an ESGW provider, end-to-end testing is not always performed,
which creates a risk of not delivering E9-1-1 calls.
WG 4A recognizes a need to update or create applicable documents to promote best
practices to avoid this situation
The BP could be based on this example:
VPC shall coordinate and perform necessary testing of all new paths with ESRNs to
make sure E9-1-1 calls are being delivered.
5.4.4.5 VSP Voice call compression – Issue/Gap:
VoIP calls do not come through as clearly as traditional analog or digital calls for E9-1-
1. VSPs compress calls to maximize capacity within their networks, in which 9-1-1
calls are not given any priority or special treatment to ensure that all possible voice
quality and background sounds are accurately heard by the PSAP call taker.
WG 4A recognizes a need to update or create applicable documents to promote reliable
1 6and higher quality E9-1-1 Voice over IP for the PSAP. Specific considerations will
need to be made based upon the available IP connection bandwidth in a fixed or
nomadic environment.
The BP could be based on this example:
For 9-1-1 calls, the VSP shall prioritize the voice data and use the highest quality
compression CODEC available. Since this only pertains to a small percentage of actual
call volume, the VSP should be able to accommodate providing reliable and quality
service.
ALTERNATE APPROACH TO VSP VOICE CALL COMPRESSION:
VSP UAC’s must set priority on emergency calls (SIP resource priority – RFC 4412).
They should also apply a toll quality CODEC (G.711 or better) and to the extent
possible, apply prioritization of elements in their control (proxies, etc.) over call control
aspects.
Additionally, the VSP should adhere to the recommendations in the IETF phonebcp for
UAC design. Although it is still in draft, it is presumed to become an IETF RFC soon.
Here is a link: http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ecrit-phonebcp-14
5.4.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
5.5 Validation Procedures for Inputting and Updating Location Information in
Relevant Databases
The exact intent of Congress is unclear in the language “validation procedures for inputting and
updating location information in relevant databases.” The location validation procedure for
VoIP using a registered address would either occur when data is entered into the database of a
VoIP provider or in a VPC database. The likely issue here is acquiring MSAG information and
getting it to either the VoIP or VPC provider. In large part, the issue may be concerned with the
process of obtaining MSAG data from the controller of the MSAG data, either a 9-1-1 System
Service Provider or the 9-1-1 Governing Authority. This may be more of a business or process
issue than a standards or best practices issue. Best practices/processes are being defined for
location data in publishable databases maintained by public safety, accessible by authorized
service providers, for NG9-1-1.
1 75.5.1 Standards
The following existing standards apply to this issue and should be implemented by VoIP service
providers:
04-005 v1 NENA ALI Query Service (AQS) Standard
http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/cpe/ali-query-service
This document defines the NENA XML ALI Query Service (AQS) that specifies new
protocols between the PSAP and the Next Generation Emergency Services Network
(NGESN). It provides the rationale behind the AQS and how it relates to the current ALI
protocol. It also provides an overview of implementation alternatives (bindings) described in
detail within the document.
NENA Addressing Systems (physical book)
A TRAINING GUIDE FOR 9-1-1
www.nena.org/store (at the above web page, select “Books”, then scroll to find this item)
The goal of any addressing system is to create an efficient system that is geared toward public
safety, is usable and understandable, is easy to maintain, and can be used by everyone, even a
child. This sounds easy, but as those who are involved with addressing will bear witness, it is not
straightforward or a simple task to accomplish. It requires planning, organization, coordination,
cooperation, and an eye for detail.
Most areas use a combination of addressing systems covered in this book. Some addressing
schemes work better in urban areas, some work better in rural areas, and many are a hybrid of
two or more addressing schemes. The factors that determine the approach to use for addressing
always come down to a few basics. The addressing system used must be easy to follow, easy to
understand, easy to update, and easy to maintain.
5.5.2 Best Practices
No existing best practices were identified for this issue.
5.5.3 Related Documentation
56-504 NENA VoIP Deployment and Operational Guidelines: minimum requirements for
VoIP E9-1-1 Implementation Guidelines – defines minimum testing, training and technical
maintenance issues required for providers to interconnect to the E9-1-1 system. See section 3.7
regarding validation.
-http://www.nena.org/media/File/NENAVoIPDeploymentOIDfinal060606a.pdf
This document has been developed as a best practice for the deployment of VoIP E9-1-1 service.
As such, its primary goal is to set expectations and improve communications among the parties
involved in the deployment process. The intent of this document is to offer guidance to VoIP
Service Providers, 9-1-1 Governing Authorities and PSAP Managers/Administrators prior to and
during the process of VoIP E9-1-1 deployment. This document specifically addresses VoIP E9-
1 81-1 deployments using dynamic ALI. It does not cover static VoIP using traditional wireline
ALI.
5.5.4 Gaps
5.5.4.1 CSRIC WG 4A was unable to identify any existing Best Practices that apply
specifically to this item. This is seen as a gap that should be filled.
5.5.4.2 VSP (CLEC) old/prior ALISA data – Issue/Gap:
Some PSAP CPE permits the calltaker to use a manual query, and when it is used on a
VoIP call the old/prior address location presents on the ALI screen.
WG 4A recognizes a need to solve this problem at the source, and have ILEC/CLECs
remove old data from legacy databases when VSPs transfer customers to a VPC from
an ILEC. Eliminating the potential of PSAPs retrieving the wrong location data will
improve the reliability to always use the correct address information.
The BP could be based on this example;
When CLECs migrate from legacy to dynamic ALI routing using a VPC, the old
customer data in the legacy databases shall be removed. When old data records are
removed, the database costs are reduced for the 9-1-1 Authority. PSAP training also
helps to make sure call takers do not depend on a manual query for any call delivered
with an ESQK (VoIP pANI) via a VPC. It is also possible to include parameters in
CPE that do not allow manual queries when an ESQK is present.
5.5.4.3 Harassing VoIP Callers – Issue/Gap:
VSP – Traditional users who provide a “registered address” can intentionally provision
the wrong address and spam E9-1-1 calls to the PSAP.
WG 4A recognizes a need to mitigate this problem to the extent possible through
standards that provide aggressive methods to block these calls in the network today, as
well as prepare for the future of controlling congestion in the emergency Services IP
Network (ESInet) before getting to the PSAP.
The BP could be based on this example, but this decision should be made after a
thorough review by the appropriate industry experts;
Proposed Practice 1: Upon contacting the VPC, the call should be blocked at the
source being the VSP immediately. The VSP shall control the port and the IP of the
caller and provide any and all exigent information about the location of the caller to the
PSAP for enforcement purposes. If the VSP is outside the country, the VPC shall be
permitted to notify and block all calls from the VSP until resolved.
1 9Proposed Practice 2: Some VSPs that are in fixed locations are able to validate the
address location along with GPS from the device (like a femtocell) and prohibit
inaccurate address provisioning.
5.5.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also, WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
5.6 Format for Delivering Address Information to Public Safety Answering Points
For Internet-based VoIP service, which is a wireline-equivalent service, this issue primarily
relates to the storage format in the ALI servers (often erroneously assumed to be the transmission
format sent to the PSAP), which can vary among various E9-1-1 systems and SSPs. Optimally,
VPC providers must match their dynamic update data field content to the established ALI storage
process and structure, so that both the VoIP and wireline data field content in the ALI servers are
the same. This may mean differences from one SSP to another. In addition, differences in data
field content may be driven by scenarios based on whether the target PSAP has PSAP controller
equipment that can or cannot reformat the data flow transmitted from the E9-1-1 system ALI
servers. For PSAPs where the equipment cannot reformat the ALI server data transmission for
screen display, PSAPs may have specific requirements for how the individual VoIP data items
are to be displayed to the calltaker, which may then require that the VPC dynamic data field
content differ between PSAPs. VoIP and VPC providers may view these differences as
complicating and undesirable. From a standards perspective, the solution to these complications
is to move to XML tagged data throughout the 9-1-1 system, rather than revise the current
system structure and assignments in the short term. XML tagged data has been and is being
addressed by the NENA Data Committee and Data Development WG.
5.6.1 Standards
The following existing standards apply to this issue and should be implemented by VoIP service
providers:
02-010 NENA Standard Data Formats for ALI Data Exchange & GIS Mapping
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/data-formats-ALI-MSAG-GIS
This document sets forth NENA standard formats for data exchange between Service Providers
and Data Base Management System Providers, a GIS data model, and a Data Dictionary. The
standard concerns exchange between originating service providers and system service providers
(SSPs) and proposes a (future) XML format for transmission to the PSAP. See especially
Exhibits 5 – 15.
RFC 4119 IETF: A Presence-based GEOPRIV Location Object Format
2 0-http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4119
This document does not invent any format for location information itself. Numerous existing
formats based on civic location, geographic coordinates, and the like, have been developed in
other standards fora. Instead, this document defines an object that is suitable both for identifying
and encapsulating preexisting location information formats, and for providing adequate security
and policy controls to regulate the distribution of location information over the Internet.
NOTE: RFC 4119 IETF is applicable herein, with the understanding that XML-tagged data is
more relevant within NG9-1-1 systems than current E9-1-1 systems. Inclusion of it here as an
applicable Standard should not be seen as advocating support for XML tagging within E9-1-1
systems.
5.6.2 Best Practices
No existing best practices were identified for this issue.
5.6.3 Related Documentation
02-501 NENA Wireless (Pre-XML) Static and Dynamic ALI Data Content Technical
Information Document
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/data/wireless-ali-data-content
This TID identifies wireless ALI data content for dynamic and static ALI data field content
definitions and recommendations. Concepts are generally applicable to both cellular and Internet
VoIP.
http://www.nena.org/media/File/02‐503_20070223_2.pdf02-503 NENA Technical Information
Document on XML Namespaces
-http://www.nena.org/standards/technical/data/xml-namespaces
This document is dedicated to namespaces as used in XML technologies. It is intended to
provide a non technical introduction to the concept of namespace and a relatively complete
overview of the specific characteristics of XML namespaces
NOTE: 02-503 is applicable herein, with the understanding that XML-tagged data is more
relevant within NG9-1-1 systems than current E9-1-1 systems. Inclusion of it here as an
applicable standard should not be seen as advocating support for XML tagging within E9-1-1
systems.
ATIS-0500012: Location Acquisition for Internet Access in Support of Emergency Services
-http://www.atis.org/docstore/product.aspx?id=22766
This ATIS Technical Report is not intended to be seen as an American National Standard (ANS).
Rather it is intended to be used as input to further decision-making processes leading to any
necessary policy and/or American National Standard formulation. It will be used as a vehicle for
communicating location acquisition concepts in liaisons with other relevant Standards. This
document describes the specific areas of location acquisition in Internet Protocol (IP) access
networks. It concerns itself with both the architectures and protocols for supporting these
functions. In brief, this is about the manner in which IP devices such as VoIP clients obtain
2 1location information from an access network – location acquisition. For emergency services to
work as envisioned by the NENA defined i2 architecture for VoIP, location must be available to
route the call to a PSAP and to provide the call taker with the caller's location. This information
is required in the NENA i2 architecture and will continue to be required in the NENA i3
architecture. This document starts by describing the mechanisms by which a client might obtain
location or by which a network might provide location to or on behalf of a client. There are a
number of location acquisition protocols which might be used, including DHCP, LLDP-MED,
LREP-SIP, HELD, RELO, and LCP. This document provides a targeted analysis of each, but it
does not presume that any single protocol will be used universally.
5.6.4 Gaps
5.6.4.1 CSRIC WG 4A was unable to identify any existing Best Practices that apply
specifically to this item. This is seen as a gap that should be filled.
5.6.4.2 VSP (IP/VRS) ALI Data – Issue/Gap:
For VSP (IP/VRS) calls, the ALI shall include an indication that a relay call is
incoming to the PSAP. During the initial translation delays of a relay call, the call taker
may hear silence and hang up on the caller resulting in the caller to call back.
WG 4A recognizes a need to update or create applicable documents to promote best
practices and educate VSPs (IP/VRS).
The BP could be based on this example;
In the existing ALI subscriber name field, the IP/VRS company along with “Relay
Caller” can be used to alert the PSAP call taker to initiate the appropriate SOP for
handling relay calls along with expecting translation delays. This improves the reliably
of handling the call by not mistaking it for an abandoned call. Also, the IP/VRS
interpreter can incorporate additional operating procedures when relaying a 9-1-1 call
and initiate an introduction immediately after the PSAP greeting, before interpreting
back to the 9-1-1 caller.
5.6.5 Recommendations
CSRIC WG 4B should use the input provided by WG 4A (above and herein as applicable) to
update existing NRIC BPs to make it clear that the appropriate stakeholder(s) should consider
adopting them. Also WG 4B should create new BPs where WG 4A has identified there are no
existing BPs to cover specific subject matter applicable to reliable delivery of 9-1-1 calls in a
VoIP environment.
6. Conclusions
As shown in the gaps listed in this Report (above & below in Appendix A), CSRIC WG 4A
recognizes a need to update or create applicable documentation to promote CSRIC sanctioned
Best Practices, but those specific decisions should only be made after a thorough review by the
appropriate industry experts. WG 4A believes that anchoring this responsibility within CSRIC
2 2WG 4B will expose these gaps to a wide audience of appropriate industry experts. WG 4A also
believes that it is in the best interests of Public Safety to grant WG 4B latitude to reach out to
other subject matter experts as needed, such as (but not limited to) experts participating in other
CSRIC Working Groups.
2 37. Appendix A
Gaps unrelated to the six items enumerated in section 101 of the New and Emerging
Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008
CSRIC WG 4A wishes to draw attention to the following topics that may need to be
reviewed by the appropriate industry experts to determine if there is a need for specific
CSRIC sanctioned Best Practices to help ensure the reliability 9-1-1 calls initiated using
VoIP services.
Routing and Network Reliability Areas Needing Attention
1) ESQK Provisioned List
• Issue/Gap: ESQKs requested by VPCs are not accurately provisioned in the ILEC
network and E9-1-1 calls are either routed to the wrong PSAP or not routed at all.
2) 10-digit PSAP Backup Numbers
• Issue/Gap: The VPCs do not have an accurate list of 10-digit numbers on which the
PSAP would like to receive their VoIP calls when E9-1-1 routing is not available. This
10-digit number may be extremely unique to the PSAP depending upon how they set up
their PSTN lines and is not necessarily their published emergency or non-emergency
number.
3) ESGW Provisioning
• Issue/Gap: ESGWs that are a critical link between the VPC and the S/R entity run the
risk of having congestion of VoIP service block legacy call if both technologies are
combined on the same paths.
4) VSP Mobile Application providers routing on x-y
• Issue/Gap: Various VoIP mobile applications do not provide location data (lat/lon) to
automatically route the 9-1-1 calls and instead go to call centers which send the call to the
PSAP on PSTN or in the worst case the mobile application will do nothing.
5) VSP Nomadic backup routing –
• Issue/Gap: A VSP providing nomadic capability that chooses to provide backup routing
via a wireless network when a subscriber does not provision an address is not accurately
routing E9-1-1 calls. This type of routing also does not provide a call back number, or
even an accurate estimate of the caller’s address. None of these conditions provide nor
promote reliable VoIP E9-1-1.
2 4Data and Service Reliability Areas In Need of Attention
6) VSP (IP/VRS) caller data
• Issue/Gap: For VSP (IP/VRS) there should be basic standards for PSAPs to retrieve 9-1-
1 caller data from relay service. The existing privacy interpreter FCC regulations do not
address the fact that a caller gives up some privacy rights when calling 9-1-1.
8. Acronym Descriptions
ALI Automatic Location Information
ATIS Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
BP Best Practice
CAD Computer Aided Dispatch
CLEC Competitive Local Exchange Carrier
ESGW Emergency Service Gateway
ESQK Emergency Services Query Key
ESRN Emergency Services Routing Number
GIS Geographic Information System
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
ILEC Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier
IP/VRS IP or Video Relay Service
MPC Mobile Positioning Center
MSAG Master Street Address Guide
NENA National Emergency Number Association
NRIC Network Reliability and Interoperability Council
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
RFC IETF Requests for Comments
SSP (9-1-1) System Service Provider
2 5TID Technical Information Document
VI Video Interpreter
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol
VPC VoIP Positioning Center
VSP VoIP Service Provider
XML Extensible Markup Language
2 6
