PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRIC-III-WG7-Final-ReportFinal.pdf:
March 2012
Final Report
U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct (ABCs)
for Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
“This Code of Conduct would be a major step forward and a significant complement to the
Administration’s broader efforts against botnets.”
FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski
February 22, 2012
WORKING GROUP 7 - Botnet RemediationThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ........................................................................................................ 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................. 4
2.2 CSRIC WG7 Structure .................................................................................................... 4
2.3 Working Group 7 Team Members .................................................................................. 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 6
3.1 Objective ......................................................................................................................... 6
3.2 Scope ............................................................................................................................... 6
3.3 Methodology ................................................................................................................... 7
4 Background .............................................................................................................................. 7
5 Recommendations .................................................................................................................... 8
5.1 Recommendations ........................................................................................................... 8
5.2 Future Work .................................................................................................................... 8
5.3 Acknowledgements ........................................................................................................ 8
6 Conclusions .............................................................................................................................. 9
7 Appendix ................................................................................................................................ 10
Page 2 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
A malicious "bot" refers to a program that is installed on a system in order to enable that system
to automatically perform a task, or set of tasks, typically under the command and control of a
nefarious remote administrator. The growth of bot infected end-user devices1 represents a
meaningful threat to the vitality and resiliency of the Internet and to the online economy.
Botnets are networks of Internet-connected end-user computing devices infected with bot
malware, which are remotely controlled by third parties for nefarious purposes. Bots and
botnets can lead to theft of personal information, attacks against public and private networks,
and exploitation of end-users’ computing power and Internet access.
The CSRIC III tasked Working Group 7, Botnet Remediation, with proposing a set of agreed-
upon voluntary practices that would constitute the framework for an opt-in implementation
model for ISPs to follow to mitigate the botnet threat. In response, the U.S. Anti-Bot Code of
Conduct for ISPs was developed to address the threat of bots and botnets in residential
broadband networks through voluntary participation. It was determined in developing the Code
that constituents of the entire Internet ecosystem have important roles to play in addressing the
botnet threat and that ISPs depend on support from the other parts in the ecosystem.
The Code encourages ISPs to participate in activities in support of end-user education to prevent
bot infections, detection of bots, notification of potential bot infections, remediation of bots, and
collaboration and sharing of information from participating in the Code. The Code is included in
the Appendix.
The Working Group recommends ISPs and other service providers offering broadband Internet
access service to residential end-users participate in the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code of
Conduct for Internet Service Providers. The Working Group further recommends ISPs and
other service providers indicate their agreement to participate in the voluntary Code by
contacting the industry organization ultimately administering participation in the Code. Initially
it is suggested that participating ISPs and other service providers either notify the entity of their
own choice regarding their code participation or self assert on their own web site. Future work
identified includes determining the long term administration of Code participation, periodic
updates to the Code, identifying barriers to Code participation, defining metrics, and identifying
best practices and lessons learned among Code participants and supporting ecosystem
contributors.
1 The terms bot and bot infection are used interchangeably
in this document.
Page 3 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
2 Introduction
CSRIC III established Working Group 7 (WG7) to address botnet remediation in broadband
networks. WG7 investigated work on bot remediation that is taking place in the IETF, Japan,
Australia, Finland, Germany, and elsewhere to determine the best approach to address the bot
threat in United States’ broadband networks.
The result of this work is the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for Internet Service
Providers which can be found in the Appendix.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) III
CSRIC Steering Committee
Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Chair Co-Chairs Chair Chair Co-Chairs Co-Chairs
Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Working Group 5:
Working Group 1: Working Group 2: Working Group 3: Working Group 4: Working Group 6: Working Group 7: Working Group 9:
DNSSEC Working Group 8:
Next Generation Next Generation E911 Location Network Security Secure BGP Botnet Legacy Broadcast Working Group 10:
Implementation E911 Best
911 Alerting Accuracy Best Practices Deployment Remediation Alerting Issues 911 Prioritization
Practices for ISPs Practices
2.2 CSRIC WG7 Structure
WG7 is chaired by Michael O’Reirdan, Chairman of the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group
(MAAWG), and vice-chaired by Dr. Peter Fonash, Chief Technology Officer, Office of
Cybersecurity and Communications, Department of Homeland Security. Members of WG7
include representatives from ISPs, suppliers of software and network equipment, academia, as
well as other organizations that are a part of the Internet ecosystem.
Page 4 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
2.3 Working Group 7 Team Members
Working Group 7 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Michael O'Reirdan – Chair MAAWG
Peter Fo nash – V i ce-Chair Department of Homeland Security
Neil Schwartzman - Secretary CAUCE
Robert Thornberry - Drafter Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent
Paul Diamond - Drafter CenturyLink
Vernon Mosley – Liaison FCC
Alex Bobotek AT&T
Adam O’Donnell Sourcefire
Alfred Huger Sourcefire
Barry Greene ISC
Bill McInnis IID
Bill Smith PayPal
Brian Done Department of Homeland Security
Chris Roosenraad Time Warner Cable
Chris Sills IID
Craig Spiezle Online Trust Alliance (OTA)
Daniel Bright MCINC
Eric Osterweil Verisign
Gabe Iovino REN-ISAC
Greg Holzapfel Sprint
Gunter Ollmann Damballa
James Holgerson Sprint
Jay Opperman Comcast
Joe St Sauver University of Oregon and Internet2
Johannes Ullrich SANS Institute
John Denning Bank of America
John Griffin Telecommunication Systems Inc.
John St. Clair Verizon
Jon Boyens National Institute of Standards and Technology
Kevin Sullivan Microsoft
Kurian Jacob FCC
Matt Carothers Cox
Maxim Weinstein StopBadware
Merike Kaeo ISC
Michael Fiumano Sprint
Michael Glenn CenturyLink
Robert Mayer USTelecom
Tice Morgan T-Mobile
Tim Rohrbaugh Intersections
Timothy Vogel Verizon
Table 1 - List of Working Group 7 Members
Page 5 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The CSRIC tasked Working Group 7, Botnet Remediation, with proposing a set of agreed-upon
voluntary practices that would constitute the framework for an opt-in implementation model for
ISPs to follow in order to mitigate the botnet threat. In response, the U.S. Anti-Bot Code of
Conduct for ISPs was developed to address the threat of bots and botnets in residential
broadband networks through voluntary participation. .
3.2 Scope
This section identifies the problem statement, working group description, and deliverables
outlined in the CSRIC III charter for Working Group 7.
Problem Statement: The growth of bot infected end-user devices2 represents a meaningful
threat to the vitality and resiliency of the Internet and to the online economy. Botnets are
networks of Internet-connected end-user computing devices infected with bot malware, which
are remotely controlled by third parties for nefarious purposes. Bots and botnets can lead to
theft of personal information, attacks against public and private networks, and exploitation of
end-users’ computing power and Internet access.
In order to reduce the bot infections in residential end-user devices and mitigate the potential
exploitation of the bots, the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for ISPs was developed
by the Working Group 7 members.
Working Group 7 Description: This Working Group will review the efforts undertaken within
the international community, such as the Australian Internet Industry Code of Practice, and
among domestic stakeholder groups, such as IETF and the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working
Group, for applicability to U.S. ISPs. Building on the work of CSRIC II Working Group 8 ISP
Network Protection Practices, the Botnet Remediation Working Group shall propose a set of
agreed-upon voluntary practices that would constitute the framework for an opt-in
implementation model for ISPs. The Working Group will propose a method for ISPs to express
their intent to op-into the framework proposed by the Working Group. The Working Group will
also identify potential ISP implementation barriers to the newly drafted Codeand identify steps
the FCC can take that may help overcome these barriers. Finally, the Working Group shall
identify performance metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the Code at curbing the spread of
bot infections.
2 The terms bot and bot infection are used interchangeably
in this document.
Page 6 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
Report Deliverables:
1. Code of Conduct: March 22, 2012
2. Barriers to Code Participation: September 12, 2012
3. Bot Remediation Performance Metrics: December 5, 2012
This report, the U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for ISPs, is the first of three report deliverables
for the Working Group 7.
3.3 Methodology
Working Group 7 began its research into the development of a U.S. voluntary Anti-Bot Code of
Conduct for ISPs by assembling a team of experts from industry, government, and academia,
representing diverse stakeholders in the development and implementation of the Code. The
Working Group 7 reviewed the efforts undertaken within the international community, including
the Australian Internet Industry Code of Practice and the Japanese Cyber Clean Center, and
among domestic stakeholder groups, including the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and
the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group, for applicability to U.S. ISPs. Building on the work
of CSRIC II Working Group 8, ISP Network Protection Practices, the CSRIC III Working
Group 7 established biweekly conference calls amongst its members to discuss the development,
content, and relevancy of related efforts towards the establishment of a U.S. Anti-Bot Code of
Conduct for ISPs. The Working Group 7 coordinated its Code development efforts with the
Department of Commerce and the National Security Staff of the White House through regular
conference calls to discuss areas of mutual botnet remediation interests. The Working Group 7
held two face-to-face meetings with its members, one in November 2011 to develop the
structure and discuss the content of sections of the draft Code, and a final face-to-face meeting
in February 2012 to review the draft final Code. The resulting U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct
for ISPs is based on the collective input of the Working Group 7 members, and discussions those
members and their companies have had with other stakeholders in reducing the incidence of bot
infections.
3
4 Background
A malicious or potentially malicious "bot" refers to a program that is installed on a system in
order to enable that system to automatically (or semi-automatically) perform a task or set of
tasks typically under the command and control of a nefarious remote administrator, or "bot
master." Bots are also known as "zombies." Such bots may have been installed surreptitiously,
without the user's full understanding of what the bot will do once installed, unknowingly as part
of another software installation, under false pretenses, or in a variety of other possible ways.
Devices used by Internet users can be infected with malware that may contain or install one or
more bots on a device. They can present a major problem for a number of reasons. First, these
bots can be used to send spam, in some cases very large volumes of spam. This spam can result
3 See Recommendations for the Remediation of Bots in ISP Networks, http://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-oreirdan-mody-
bot-remediation-20.txt
Page 7 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
in extra cost for the ISPs in terms of wasted network, server, or personnel resources, among
many other potential costs and side effects. Such spam can also negatively affect the reputation
of the ISP, their customers, and the email reputation of the IP address space used by the ISP
(often referred to simply as 'IP reputation').
In addition, these bots can act as platforms for directing, participating in, or otherwise
conducting attacks on critical Internet infrastructure. Bots are frequently used as part of
coordinated Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks for criminal, political, or other
motivations.
The role of ISPs in providing services to Internet users, places ISPs in position to be able to
attempt to detect and observe botnets operating in their networks. Furthermore, ISPs may also
be in a position to be able to notify their customers of actual, potential, or likely infection by
bots.
From end-users' perspectives, being notified that they may have an infected device on their
network provides important information. Once they know this, they can take steps to remove
the bots, resolve any problems which may stem from the bot infection, and protect themselves
against future threats.
Working Group 7 developed the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for ISPs to address
the threat of bots and botnets, described above, in residential broadband networks. Adoption of
the Code by ISPs is voluntary. It is not mandatory.
5 Recommendations
5.1 Recommendations
The Working Group recommends that ISPs and other service providers offering broadband
Internet access service to residential end-users participate in the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code
of Conduct for Internet Service Providers. The Working Group further recommends ISPs and
other service providers indicate their agreement to participate in the voluntary Code by
contacting the industry organization ultimately administering participation in the Code. As a
voluntary code of conduct developed by the industry, and for the industry, the goal is for a
neutral industry forum to receive and collate reports relating to participation in the Code.
Initially to indicate participation, it is suggested that participating ISPs and other service
providers either notify the entity of their own choice regarding their Code participation or self
assert on their own web site.
5.1.1 Future Work
This report, the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for ISPs, is the first of three report
deliverables for Working Group 7. Work remains to address the long-term administration of the
Code and periodic updates. Next, the Working Group will identify potential barriers to Code
participation. As a final step, the Working Group will identify potential bot remediation
performance metrics.
Page 8 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
Future work is recommended to address bot infection delivery mechanisms from infected and
nefarious websites and hosting services in order that the efforts of WG7 become ubiquitous, and
thus effective.
5.1.2 Acknowledgements
WG7 wishes to thank Yurie Ito from the Japan CERT for her informative presentation and
discussion of lessons learned from the Japan Cyber Clean Center, Japan’s anti-botnet program.
We also thank Ari Schwartz from National Institute of Standards (NIST) for his presentation on
the botnet threat and mitigation strategies. Also, WG7 thanks Microsoft, MAAWG, and the
FCC for hosting face-to-face WG7 meetings.
WG 7 would particularly like to thank the following members of the group whose unstinting
efforts have contributed massively to the code development process:
Robert Thornberry, of Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent (Editor)
Paul Diamond, CenturyLink (Editor)
Joe St Sauver, University of Oregon and Internet2 (Glossary)
Neil Schwartzman, CAUCE (Secretary)
6 Conclusions
In response to the CSRIC III tasking to the Working Group 7, the voluntary U.S. Anti-Bot Code
of Conduct for ISPs was developed to address the threat of bots and botnets in residential
broadband networks through voluntary participation. It was determined in developing the Code
that constituents of the entire Internet ecosystem have important roles to play in addressing the
botnet threat and that ISPs depend on support from the other parts in the ecosystem.
This March 22, 2012 report, the U.S. Anti-Bot Code of Conduct for ISPs, is the first of three
report deliverables for the Working Group 7. Next, the Working Group will identify potential
barriers to Code participation, with a report forthcoming in September 2012. As a final step, the
Working Group will identify botnet remediation performance metrics and submit its report on
this topic in December 2012.
Page 9 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
7 Appendix
Voluntary Anti-Bot Code (ABC) of Conduct for Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
Addressing Bot Activity in Broadband Networks
Final Draft
1 March 2012
1. Introduction
The growth of bot∗ infected end-user∗ devices represents a meaningful threat to the vitality and
resiliency of the Internet and to the online economy. Note that bot infection and bot are used
synonymously in this document to refer to an end-user device infected with bot malware.
Botnets are networks of Internet-connected end-user computing devices infected with bot
∗
malware , which are remotely controlled by third parties for nefarious purposes.
Bots and botnets can lead to theft of personal information, attacks against public and private
∗
networks, and exploitation of end-users’ computing power and Internet access. Public
awareness of bots, their impact, and the resulting security and privacy issues is low. This
voluntary code of conduct (“Code”) provides a set of principles and recommended activities that
Internet Service Providers may adopt to help address the threats presented by the presence of
bots and botnets in residential broadband networks.
∗
It should be recognized that bots impact the entire Internet ecosystem and that successfully
curtailing bots or mitigating their impact will require collective action by all parts of that
ecosystem, including end-users, software developers, search providers, websites, e-commerce
∗
sites, and others. End-user devices are outside of the control of ISPs hence all participants in
the Internet ecosystem need to work together to address this issue. This Code seeks to lay the
groundwork for future coordination among various stakeholders by defining a set of actions
appropriately directed to the limited role ISPs can play to help address this important issue.
The Code recognizes the substantial variability in size, resources, business models and
environments, expertise, and abilities of the ISPs in the United States. The success of ISP
activities relies on similar efforts by other Internet stakeholders.
The core requirements for participation in this Code are set forth in Section 5. The other
sections of this document contain background information or additional explanatory material.
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 10 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
2. Definitions of Key Terms
Note to the Reader:
Any discussion of bots inevitably involves a unique technical vocabulary. Recognizing that
many readers may not be familiar with some of those specialized terms, the Code includes a
glossary as Appendix 2. Any term appearing in the glossary will be marked with an asterisk “*”
in the body of the Code text the first time it appears as a way of alerting the reader that a
definition is available in the glossary.
3. Objectives and Principles
a. The objectives of this Code are to:
1. Provide an initial framework for ISPs to better understand and help address
the bot issue; and
2. Encourage ISPs to
• Educate end-users of the threat posed by bots and of actions end-users
can take to help prevent bot infections;
• Detect bot activities or obtain information, including from credible third
parties, on bot infections among their end-user base;
• Notify end-users of suspected bot infections or help enable end-users to
determine if they are potentially infected by bots; and
• Provide information and resources, directly or by reference to other
sources, to end-users to assist them in remediating bot infections.
b. Implementation of the Code will be guided by the following principles:
1. Voluntary — participation is voluntary and encourages types of actions to
be taken by ISPs, however this Code does not require any particular activity.
2. Technology neutral — this Code does not prescribe any particular means
or methods.
3. Approach neutrality — this Code does not prescribe any particular
approach to implement any part of this Code.
4. Respect for privacy — ISPs must address privacy issues in an appropriate
manner consistent with applicable laws.
5. Legal compliance — activities must comply with applicable law.
6. Shared responsibility — ISPs, acting alone, cannot fully address the threat
posed by bots. Other Internet ecosystem participants must also do their part.
7. Sustainability — ISPs should seek activities that are cost-effective and
sustainable within the context of their business models.
Page 11 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
8. Information sharing — ISPs should indicate how they are participating in
the Code and share lessons-learned from their activities with other
appropriate stakeholders. All information sharing between ISPs and other
involved parties must be performed in accordance with applicable laws
including, but not limited to, antitrust and privacy laws.
9. Effectiveness — ISPs should be encouraged to engage in activities that
have been demonstrated to be appropriate and effective.
10. Effective Communication — Communication with customers∗ should take
into account various issues such as language and make sure that
information is provided in a manner that is reasonably expected to be
understood and accessible by the recipients.
4. Scope and Roles
This Code was drafted specifically for ISPs and other service providers offering broadband
Internet access service to residential end-users. The activities in this Code may be adapted for
use by other Internet providers and participants.
This Code is not meant to be an all-inclusive approach to online security, but is meant to
coexist with other current and future efforts. It anticipates a significant role for other Internet
ecosystem participants, including but not limited to:
 Security software vendors
 Operating system developers
 End-user focused organizations
 Providers of Internet content, applications, and services
Online security should include a multifaceted, flexible approach using advice and tools from
various reputable sources.
a. Definition of Success
Initial success of this Code will be assessed in terms of participation by the ISP
community. Support by the Internet ecosystem at large, however, is seen as
paramount to the ultimate success in the fight against bots.
b. Benefits of Participation in the Code
The following high-level benefits may result from meaningful ISP participation
in this Code:
 Increased security of end-user information and devices and for U.S.
infrastructure;
 Increased awareness of the bot threat and how to address it among end-
users, ISPs, and other Internet-related industry participants;
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 12 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
 Notification∗ and remediation∗ of bot activity on bot infected end-user
devices;
 Creation of an environment in U.S. residential broadband networks that is
even more hostile to the deployment and utilization of bots; and
 Development and wider use of effective notification and remediation
architectures and tools across end-users and ISPs.
Some ISPs participating in the Code development process who have previously implemented
some aspects of the Code have experienced beneficial results in areas such as lower call
volumes to help desks from customers with infected machines, reduced upstream bandwidth
consumption by denial-of-service attacks and spam∗ , increased customer goodwill and lower
customer churn, and reduction in spam-related complaints from other ISPs. Although individual
results may vary, ISPs are encouraged to look for specific ways in which Code participation
bolsters their overall broadband business, and to share those experiences with other ISPs. In
addition, ISP participation in this Code may enable ISPs to generate tangible metrics relating to
the impact of specific activities on the ISPs overall broadband business operations, which in
turn may support development or deployment of further anti-bot activities.
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 13 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
5. Parameters for Participation
Participation in this Code is voluntary.
Voluntary Code of Conduct Participation Requirements
To participate in this Code, an ISP will engage in at least one activity (i.e., take meaningful
action) in each of the following general areas:
• Education - an activity intended to help increase end-user education and
awareness of botnet issues and how to help prevent bot infections;
• Detection - an activity intended to identify botnet activity in the ISP’s network,
obtain information on botnet activity in the ISP’s network, or enable end-users to
self-determine potential bot infections on their end-user devices;
• Notification - an activity intended to notify customers of suspected bot infections
or enable customers to determine if they may be infected by a bot;
• Remediation - an activity intended to provide information to end-users about how
they can remediate bot infections, or to assist end-users in remediating bot
infections.
• Collaboration - an activity to share with other ISPs feedback and experience
learned from the participating ISP’s Code activities.
∗
The concept of engaging in “at least one activity” in each of these general areas is intended to
encourage some level of activity in each of the five areas noted above as part of an overall
nationwide process of creating an environment in U.S. residential broadband networks that is
even more hostile to the deployment and utilization of bots. It is intended to support and
encourage a wide range of flexible efforts to experiment and innovate with various methods of
education, detection∗ , notification, and remediation. In that same vein, the requirement to share
feedback with other ISPs is not intended to dictate any specific means or methods of sharing
such feedback.
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 14 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
6. End-User Education
a. Overview
End-users are ultimately responsible for protection of their devices and for remediating
an infected device. ISPs, like many other Internet participants and government actors,
can assist in helping to educate end-users about the threats presented by bots and the
steps end-users can take to protect their devices and remediate infections.
b. Recommended Action:
1. Education about bot prevention∗ :
ISPs should make available information about the prevention of bot
infections and related issues. At a minimum, such information should
include:
 How and why end-users must keep their software updated for
computers and devices with readily available software updates.
 The importance of using effective and current security software from a
reputable vendor.
 The importance of backing up user data and software and how to do it
effectively.
 Basic end-user actions for minimizing exposure to bot infections while
using the Internet.
It is expected that many ISPs will be able to accomplish this goal by
providing this information directly to their subscribers or by linking to
existing, publicly-available sources of such information.
2. Support of end-user bot remediation efforts:
Along with information on prevention, ISPs should make available (e.g., via
ISP publications, third-party publications or web links) information on how
end-users can generally remediate bot infections. In this area, it is
expected that ISPs will be able to accomplish this goal by linking to
existing, publicly available sources of such information or by creating new
sources of such information, either individually or in conjunction with
others.
In connection with an ISP’s end-user notification activities, ISPs should
include in such notices or otherwise, information on where the recipient
might turn for additional information and assistance. Such information
might include links to publicly-available online information, security tools, or
suggestions to seek assistance of a computer professional. Additional
subjects and references that an ISP might wish to include are:
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 15 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
 Risks to the end-user and Internet community from using a device that
is believed to be infected,
 How to identify and remove common forms of bot infections,
 Publicly-available tools or services (free or paid) to assist in the
detection and removal of bot infections, and
 Guidance on where to find additional (free or paid) assistance.
3. Guidelines:
In addressing the above requirements, ISPs should consider these
guidelines:
 Offer educational information and resources directly or through referral
to third party services.
 Keep educational content concise and focused on the most important
things users need to know.
 Ensure that instructions can be followed by an audience of non-
technical users.
 Use multiple media, e.g., images, videos, text, captions, etc., and,
where helpful, multiple languages to maximize customer understanding
and accessibility.
 Help end-users determine if they have a bot infection by providing
information or pointing to resources that describe anomalous behaviors
of bot infected devices and the availability and use of bot detection
software tools or services.
7. Bot Detection
a. Overview
As bots evolve, so must the tools and techniques used for detecting them. The
challenge to detection lies in the versatility that bot traffic has achieved to avoid many
singular techniques used for detection mechanisms, such as simple pattern matching.
Detection may be complicated by the fact that some Internet applications, like
distributed host-based caching content delivery networks , online gaming applications,
and other such services may exhibit behavior similar to that of malicious bots, and
may utilize similar technologies. ISPs should employ care in identifying impacted
parties for notification and remediation.
Page 16 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
b. Recommended Action:
ISPs can find out about malicious activity and bot compromised end-user devices in a
variety of ways:
1. Receiving notifications from external entities, particularly those designed to
aid with the overall understanding and real-time dissemination of bot
related data. A list of resources is listed in Appendix 2.
2. Deploying capabilities within their networks that aid in identifying potential
bot infections.
3. Directing customers to tools, a web portal, or other resources that enable
customers to self-identify a potential bot infection.
8. End-User Notification of Potential Bot Infection
a. Overview:
Many end-users are unaware that their devices are infected and operating as bots. As
a result, those users and their data remain at risk, and the bots can remain active
indefinitely. ISPs should leverage detection efforts described in Section 7 to make
customers aware of active infections.
Notifications should be designed to help mitigate bots and the harm they cause.
Notifications may include information on what a bot is, means of infection, that bots
may have no visible symptoms, and what the notification means. Notifications may
also contain or identify other resources such as tools, guides, and services that
facilitate infection prevention, verification, and mitigation∗ . They may also provide
information on any specific bot(s) detected.
End-user notification may take many different forms. It may be performed directly by
the ISP or by third parties on behalf of the ISP. ISPs may directly alert end-users or
provide mechanisms that allow end-users to request and receive information on their
infection status. Similarly, ISPs might enter into arrangements to enable notifications
to be delivered to end-users by other ecosystem participants with whom the end-user
has a relationship, such as a provider of an Internet application or service.
The ISP should consider mechanisms that ensure that the customer is easily able to
authenticate the notifications as genuine and that such notifications will be difficult to
spoof.
Where feasible, the ISP may wish to track receipt of notifications. This may help the
ISP better understand the effectiveness of various notification mechanisms.
Each ISP will need to evaluate different notification methods in order to find one best
suited for the particular ISP and the particular bot threat. The notification method
chosen may need to integrate with existing business processes and existing network
∗
Definition found in Glossary
Page 17 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
infrastructure. Research and analysis may be required to develop and maintain
appropriate notification systems and policies.
b. Recommended Action:
Provide communication of a suspected bot infection to the customer or help enable
customers to determine if they are potentially infected by bots. Many notification
methods are outlined in references in Appendix 2; however, other methods may be
used.
9. Bot Remediation
a. Overview
Bot mitigation and remediation is the ultimate goal of any bot infection notification
program and is ultimately the responsibility of the end-user. Notification alone may be
sufficient for technical users but the majority of users usually require some form of
assistance in removing bot malware from their infected devices. Remediation,
however, can be difficult, and may involve other complex functions such as isolating
the source of the infection among many devices sharing an Internet connection;
backing up all data and system software ahead of time in a way that preserves the
end-users’ ability to recover (but doesn’t back up the infected files or programs as
well); and ensuring that the end-user has source disks and other materials from which
to reconstruct their device image if required during the remediation process.
It is understood that some ISPs may not have the resources to provide this level of
service, nor be able to support such activities free of charge or even for a fee. In many
cases, end-users may need to be referred to providers of professional computer
support services to fully remediate their machines. ISP notifications may wish to
anticipate this fact and suggest that customers seek third party assistance to avoid
frustrating end-users with limited-service help-desks or support lines that aren’t
capable or equipped to fully address the remediation issues.
b. Recommended Action:
1. Bots are designed to be stealthy and difficult to remove. As part of the
notification, ISPs should offer guidance, as described above. This may include
links to a variety of publically available online and third party sources of
information, software, and tools. It might also include links to professional
services. These need not be offered by the ISP itself but may be offered by
third parties.
2. An ISP may provide remediation tools to the end-user, either during or after the
notification process. However, the ISP should not mandate that the end-user
run remediation tools. If the ISP provides tools to the end-user, the end-user
should be allowed to exit the process without running any suggested tools or
procedures.
3. As part of the notification process, ISPs may wish to include guidance
(depending on the nature of the bot in question) that settings on customer
owned network equipment such as home gateways and routers may have
Page 18 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
been altered and should be restored to a secure state, depending on the
nature of the bot infection.
c. Guidelines:
1. Bot removal tools and services must respect user privacy.
2. Possible infection remediation methods are outlined in the CSRIC II WG 8 best
practices and in the bot remediation IETF RFC which are referenced in
Appendix 2.
10. ISP Collaboration
a. Overview:
Bot mitigation and management are activities in which ISPs, search providers, end-
users, IT departments, hosting companies, blog providers, security vendors,
researchers, government, financial services companies, cloud service providers, and
other parties all have roles. With multi-stakeholder input and collaboration, the results
will exceed those possible through independent actions alone. ISPs’ participation in
this code, along with complementary and collaborative approaches taken by other
segments of the Internet ecosystem, can be expected to drive substantial mitigation of
the threat posed by botnets.
b. Recommended Action:
Code participation requires collaboration within ISP, industry, or broader fora through
collaborative activities, of which the following are examples:
1. Sharing detection, notification, or mitigation methods planned for or deployed
in ISP networks, and where practical an evaluation of their effectiveness.
2. Sharing of intelligence or operational attack data that may be useful in bot
prevention, defense, or remediation.
3. Identification of key data or technical resources that are needed from systems
or actors beyond the ISP network.
4. Participation in definition, development, or operation of integrated defense
strategies or systems which extend beyond the boundaries of the ISP network.
5. Other collaboration activities involving the sharing of information with parties
outside the ISP or data with systems outside of the ISP network.
All information sharing between ISPs and other involved parties will be performed in
accordance with applicable laws including, but not limited to, antitrust and privacy laws.
Page 19 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
11. Further Development of this Code
This Code will evolve over time due to the dynamic nature of the bot threat and the experience
and assessment of ISPs.
12. Additional Information and Resources
Appendix 1 – Glossary
Appendix 2 – References
Page 20 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
Appendix 1 – Glossary:
1. Bot
The following definition draws heavily from “Recommendations for the Remediation of Bots in
ISP Networks” (Referenced in Appendix 2):
A malicious (or potentially malicious) "bot" (derived from the word "robot", hereafter simply
referred to as a "bot") refers to a program that is installed on a system in order to enable that
system to automatically (or semi-automatically) perform a task or set of tasks typically under the
command and control of a remote administrator (often referred to as a "bot master" or "bot
herder.")
Computer systems and other end-user devices that have been “botted” are also often known as
"zombies".
Malicious bots are normally installed surreptitiously, without the user's consent, or without the
user's full understanding of what the user's system might do once the bot has been installed.
Bots are often used to send unwanted electronic email ("spam"), to reconnoiter or attack other
systems, to eavesdrop upon network traffic, or to host illegal content such as pirated software,
child exploitation materials, etc.
Many jurisdictions consider the involuntary infection of end-user hosts to be an example of an
unlawful computer intrusion.
2. Botnet
Botnets are networks of Internet-connected end-user computing devices infected with bot
malware, which are remotely controlled by third parties for nefarious purposes.
A botnet is under the control of a given "botherder" or "botmaster." A botnet might have just a
handful of botted hosts, or millions.
3. Customer (or "Direct Customer")
The party contracting with an ISP for service. Distinguish the "customer" from an "authorized
user:" for example, a coffee shop might purchase Internet service from an ISP. The coffee shop
would be the ISP's customer. The coffee shop might elect to offer free use of its connection (if
permitted by the ISP's Acceptable Use Policy, or AUP) to those who buy coffee from it -- coffee
buyers would then be authorized users of the connection purchased by the coffee shop, but not
the ISP's direct customer.
4. Detection
Detection is the process whereby a service provider or end-user comes to be aware that a
particular system or device has been infected with malicious software. A service provider may
detect that a system has become infected many different ways, including as a result of
receiving complaints from third parties about spam, network scanning, or attacks that have
been sourced from that system. End-users may detect system infections through software
tools or other means.
Page 21 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
5. Ecosystem
This term is often used to describe the interrelationship of various Internet participants—the
hardware manufacturers, software developers, ISPs, and providers of various Internet content,
applications, and services that make the Internet work and be useful for end-users.
The internet ecosystem includes operating system vendors, end-user focused organizations,
providers of Internet content, applications, and services, ISPs, search providers, end-users, IT
departments, hosting companies, blog providers, security vendors, researchers, government,
financial services companies, and other parties.
The so-called "underground economy" is also often described as an "ecosystem," with multiple
participants filling diverse specialized roles. For example, some participants may specialize in
writing malware, while others may "harvest" email addresses from web pages and mailing lists,
while still others may specialize in distributing malware to those harvested email addresses.
The malware ecosystem will also normally include the population of targeted potential victims,
and law enforcement agencies working to combat cybercrime.
6. End-user
End-User: In a computing and networking context, the end-user is the person who ultimately
makes authorized use of a product or service.
The end-user may often not be the same as the person who may have purchased the product
or service. For example, a coffee shop owner may purchase connectivity for use by his or her
customers; in that scenario, the coffee shop customers, and not the coffee shop owner,
represent the actual "end-users," even though they did not directly contract with an ISP for the
connectivity they're using.
A party, such as a hacker/cracker who makes use of a product or service without the
authorization of the purchaser, would normally be considered a cyber intruder and not an "end-
user" per se.
7. ISP
An Internet Service Provider (ISP) is a company that provides retail access to the Internet for
members of the public, or for businesses and other organizations. Those connections may be
via cable, DSL, satellite, wireless, dialup, or other technologies. ISPs are sometimes also
known as "access providers."
An enterprise that provides access to the Internet solely for its own employees would not
normally be considered to be an ISP. Likewise, a network carrier that only provides wholesale
access to the Internet for other ISPs would normally be considered to be a network service
provider (NSP), rather than an ISP.
Page 22 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
8. Malware
"Malware" is short for "malicious software."
Malicious bots are one type of malware. Other forms of malware include categories of software
known as viruses, Trojan horses, worms, rootkits, crimeware, keystroke loggers, dialers,
spyware, adware, etc. The factors that distinguish those different types of malware are less
important than an understanding of why malware may be viewed as "malicious."
Malware often violates one or more of the following fundamental principles:
(a) Consent: Malware may be installed even though the user did not knowingly ask for that to
happen.
(b) Honesty: Malware may pretend to do one thing, while actually doing something completely
different.
(c) Privacy-Respectfulness: Malware may violate a user's privacy, perhaps capturing user
passwords or credit card information.
(d) Non-Intrusiveness: Malware may annoy users by popping up advertisements, changing web
browser's home page, making systems slow or unstable and prone to crash, or interfering with
already installed-security software.
(e) Harmlessness: Malware may be software that hurts users (such as software that damages
our system, sends spam emails, or disables security software).
(f) Respect for User Management: If the user attempts to remove the software, it may reinstall
itself or otherwise override user preferences.
It all adds up to "software users just don't want."
Users may unknowingly install malware by opening a tainted attachment received by email, or
by visiting a web page that has malicious content. Systems may also be directly infected by a
remote attacker as a result of the attackers targeting a known vulnerability that may be remotely
exploitable, or by the user mounting an infected CD, DVD, or thumb drive.
9. Mitigation
Mitigation is the process of managing or controlling the effects associated with a bot. For
example, if a system is infected with a spam bot, and is spewing unwanted commercial email,
mitigation may consist of filtering the spam that is being emitted from that device.
Note that mitigation typically does not involve fixing the underlying condition (that would be
"remediation"); mitigation just manages the symptoms associated with a condition.
Page 23 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
10. Notification
Notification is a process whereby ISPs communicate with their end-users regarding the
possible infection of the end-user’s device by bot malware or how a subscriber can prevent or
identify such an infection. Notification may also entail a process whereby end-users are
directed to tools that will enable self-discovery of bot infections. Notification can take different
forms, including direct notification by the ISP to the end-user, or indirect notification through
available self-discovery tools or a third party. Notification may be done via multiple potential
channels, including (but not limited to) e-mail, postal mail, a phone call, in-browser notification,
web-based self-discovery tool, or SMS message.
11. Prevention
Prevention is the process of hardening a system or service so that it is less vulnerable to
compromise and exploitation. For example, on many systems, prevention may involve:
— Patching the operating system and all applications with available security fixes
— Installing or enabling a firewall
— Using anti-virus software
— Making sure the system is regularly backed up
— Using strong passwords
— Disabling all unneeded network services
— Encouraging users to safely use internet services (e.g., e-mail, web browsing,
etc.)
12. Remediation
Remediation is the process that an end-user goes through to clean up a botted computer so
that it is no longer infected. In easy cases this may involve installing and running an anti-virus
product. In more difficult cases, remediation may involve more substantial intervention up to
"nuking and paving" the system -- formatting it and reinstalling it from scratch, or at least from
the last known-clean backup. Once the system is clean, or has been reinstalled, it will then
normally be hardened to protect it from reinfection.
13. Spam
Unwanted and unrequested e-mail, often commercial in nature, normally sent to a large number
of recipients in substantially identical form. Spam is often sent by "affiliates" who are paid by the
person running the affiliate program when recipients purchase the spamvertised product.
Page 24 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
Appendix 2 – References
1. Recommendations on how to manage the effects of computers infected with malicious bots:
“Recommendations for the Remediation of Bots in ISP Networks”; (RFC issue pending) draft:
http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-oreirdan-mody-bot-remediation-20
2. CSRIC II Working Group 8 - ISP Network Protection Best Practices.
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/CSRIC_WG8_FINAL_REPORT_ISP_NETWORK_PRO
TECTION_20101213.pdf
3. icode – Australian Internet Industry Code of Practice addressing cyber security
http://iia.net.au/images/resources/pdf/icode-v1.pdf
4. Japan Cyber Clean Center – Anti-Botnet Project
https://www.ccc.go.jp/en_index.html
5. German Anti-Botnet Advisory Centre – Anti-Botnet Project
https://www.botfrei.de/en/
6. Japan Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT)
http://www.jpcert.or.jp/english/
7. US CERT - Understanding Hidden Threats: Rootkits and Botnets
http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/tips/ST06-001.html
8. Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
http://www.atis.org/
9. Department of Homeland Security
http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/gc_1158611596104.shtm
10. Department of Homeland Security - United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team
(US-CERT)
http://www.us-cert.gov/
11. International Telecommunication Union Botnet Mitigation Toolkit
http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/cyb/cybersecurity/projects/botnet.html
12. U.S. Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
http://www.nist.gov/index.html
Page 25 of 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report March, 2012
13. Department of Commerce/Department of Homeland Security Request for Information -
Models To Advance Voluntary Corporate Notification to Consumers Regarding the Illicit Use of
Computer Equipment by Botnets and Related Malware
http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2011-09-21/pdf/2011-24180.pdf
14. Comments Received in Response to Department of Commerce/Department of Homeland
Security Request for Information - Models To Advance Voluntary Corporate Notification to
Consumers Regarding the Illicit Use of Computer Equipment by Botnets and Related Malware
http://www.nist.gov/itl/botnetcomments.cfm
15. Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (MAAWG.org) - Code of Conduct
http://www.maawg.org/sites/maawg/files/news/CodeofConduct.pdf
16. M3AAWG Collection of Best Practices for ISPs and Network Operators
http://www.maawg.org/published-documents
17. National Vulnerability Database – National Institute of Standards and Technology
http://nvd.nist.gov/
18. Internet Storm Center
http://isc.sans.edu/index.html
19. Shadowserver Foundation
http://shadowserver.org
20. Spamhaus Policy Block List
http://www.spamhaus.org/pbl/
21. Composite Blocking List
http://cbl.abuseat.org
22. OnGuard Online
http://www.onguardonline.gov/default.aspx
Page 26 of 26
