PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG7_STATUS_03312014.pdf:
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
March 2014 WORKING GROUP 7
Legacy Best Practices Updates
Interim Report – Manhole Security
Page 1 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 3
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 5
2.2 Working Group 7 Team Members ................................................................................... 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 6
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 6
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 6
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations .............................................................................. 7
4.1 Analysis ............................................................................................................................ 7
4.1.1 Physically Securing Manholes .................................................................................. 7
4.1.2 Asset Protection ........................................................................................................ 9
4.1.3 Network Resiliency ................................................................................................. 10
4.2 Findings .......................................................................................................................... 13
4.3 Recommendations .......................................................................................................... 14
5 Conclusions ............................................................................................................................ 16
6 Appendix 1 – Best Practices ................................................................................................... 18
Page 2 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Public Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau (PSHSB) requested that the Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability
Council’s (CSRIC’s) Working Group 7 – Legacy Best Practices Updates (WG7) consider an
issue related to the security of manholes and how communications providers may be able to
better expedite outage restoration following unapproved access and facility damage. According
to the PSHSB, this high priority issue evolved in the aftermath of several outages in 2013 and
previous years and was directly related to vandals inappropriately accessing manholes and
damaging communication facilities1. In this paper, WG7 will examine and provide useful
information that will assist in better understanding this issue and the potential impacts on critical
infrastructure physical security and resiliency. This paper considers manholes used as part of the
communication infrastructure with the primary concern of impacts on network reliability
regardless of ownership. Finally, the paper assesses ways that communication providers can
expeditiously complete restoration requirements when events of this nature occur.
2 Introduction
As federal, state, local governments, and communication providers struggle with incidents of
facility and equipment vandalism and theft our nation’s vital communication fiber and copper
cable infrastructure is threatened. This raises a fundamental question – about how to strike a
proper balance between physical security and daily operational access. While this paper focuses
on the issue of manhole security, it could as easily address the overall security of any outside
plant component. These cables carry vital communications whether above or below ground.
Mission critical circuits for consumers, government, and communication providers are generally
aggregated throughout the countless miles of underground facility routes. These routes traverse
the nation from densely populated urban areas down to the most rural of communities. For those
1 Reference: "Vandalism At San Jose PG&E Substation Called ‘Sabotage,’" at
http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2013/04/16/gunshots-cause-oil-spill-at-san-jose-pge-substation/)
last visited March 31, 2014.
Page 3 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
bad actors that are determined to cause a disruption to communications or emergency services
the unremarkable and often unobtrusive manhole cover is the equivalent of an unlocked door.
On the surface, the most obvious response to securing manhole covers, is “to lock the doors” so
to speak. However, when focusing singularly on this solution it becomes clear that physically
securing all of the nation’s manholes is a complex project riddled with numerous issues
including viable threat, vulnerability, and consequences2. At the onset of any discussion of this
nature it is common-sense to ask what it is that we are trying to accomplish. Are we trying to
stop all unauthorized access to manholes? Or, are we trying to decrease risk to the
communications critical infrastructure in the event an unauthorized intrusion event occurs?
Physical security can deter intrusion into the manhole or vault, but the simple fact is that not all
threats and vulnerabilities can be averted and intrusion events will happen. Through a
combination of physical security (e.g., identifying and prioritizing high risk areas, securing
manhole covers), network management, and route resiliency (which includes time and effort to
restore operations and selectively utilize available diversity options) a balance can be struck that
broadens the range of protection options available.
2 Department of Homeland Security, National Infrastructure Protection Plan: Partnering to
enhance protection and resiliency, 2009, p. 27.
Page 4 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or
Co-Chairs: Co-Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co-
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working Group 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Long-Term Legacy Submarine Infrastructure 10: CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Core Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
Table 1 - Working Group Structure
2.2 Working Group 7 Team Members
Working Group 7 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Kyle Malady - Chair Verizon
Mary Boyd Intrado
Ron Boyer Boyer Broadband
Tim Collier Sprint
Shahin Daneshkhah Sprint
Victor DeVito AT&T
Stacy Hartman CenturyLink
Robin Howard Verizon
Rick Krock Alcatel Lucent
John Marinho CTIA
Bob Oenning Earthlink
Andre Savage Cox Communications
Andy Scott NCTA
Gigi Smith APCO
Kathy Whitbeck Nsight
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
Page 5 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
WG7’s objective was to examine the issue of Manhole Security. To determine if there were
existing Best Practices that applied and if so, whether they needed to be modified or if
supplemental Best Practices are needed. WG7 also considered non-Best Practice
recommendations that may be shared with other non-communication company manhole owners
(e.g., utilities, consortiums, municipalities) addressing this security issue. Finally, the objective
was to assess ways to mitigate unauthorized access to manholes and the effect of intrusions.
3.2 Scope
WG7 focused on security of manholes that are utilized by communications companies and did
not contemplate other users of manholes. In light of the fact that these other users are not
members of, or participants in the CSRIC (and not likely to adopt CSRIC Best Practices), we
established that it would be appropriate to focus our efforts on communication industry
participants. A review of the available subject matter could not quantify the total manholes
dedicated to communication company infrastructure. However, our investigation established that
a greater percentage of the nation’s estimated 20-22 million manholes, although potentially
critical in their own use (e.g., electrical, gas, transportation, sewer, or water), do not qualify
under this study as communication critical infrastructure.
Page 6 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
4.1 Analysis
4.1.1 Physically Securing Manholes
Common methods used to physically secure a manhole can be as simple as through its own
physical weight to more extreme methods such as welding, paving over, locking, or installing
barrier devices. In some applications, security may take the form of alarming manhole access
points in vaults that contain electronics or monitoring a video feed in a security center. We point
out that there is a distinction between manholes that provide occasional access and those that
provide access to electrified network elements that need more frequent access. Each of these
methods has advantages, but also disadvantages which can unintentionally reduce network
resiliency if the method used to secure the manhole precludes easy legitimate access when
required. The table below illustrates the advantages and disadvantages of the most common
methods used to secure manholes.
Method Advantages Disadvantages
Physical Weight  Difficult to lift without tools  Tools readily available
 Cost effective and quick  Tools for access readily available to
Welding  No special tools to access non-authorized people
 No keys to lose or misplace  Increases access time
 Locating and access can be difficult
if not impossible
Paving Over  Cost effective  Legitimate access time consuming
 Hides manhole from view
 Emergency access is generally
infeasible
 Keys can be lost or stolen
Locking Devices  Keyed for ease of access  Rekeying covers not practical
 Locking mechanisms can fail
 Keyed for ease of access  Keys can be lost or stolen
Barrier Devices  Pan sits under standard cover  Rekeying covers not practical
 Secures from below  Locking mechanisms can fail
 Cannot identify intent of access
 Timely notifications of entry  Does not prevent access
Intrusion Alarms  Remote surveillance  Requires response procedures
 Situational awareness  Requires 24x7 alarm monitoring
and response team
 Does not prevent access
 Real time monitoring  Can be defeated
Surveillance (Video)  Visual identification  Requires response procedures
 Situational awareness  Requires 24x7 alarm monitoring
and response team
Table 3- Methods of Manhole Security
Page 7 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
Cost and operational issues are substantial factors that must be evaluated in physically securing
manhole access points. There are some means of securing a manhole that are relatively
inexpensive such as the common practice of spot welding. This method secures the manhole but
requires a more labor intensive effort to gain access and to re-secure
the cover following any activity. Entry into a previously welded
manhole requires only basic tools (e.g., hand grinder) which can be
readily acquired even if one is not available at the onset of an event.
Other manhole entry devices provide for more sophisticated securing
and access; however under the right circumstances can, and have,
caused considerable delay in restoration efforts. For example, some
manhole covers utilize a keyed locking system which secures the cover to the enclosure. These
keys are tightly controlled through limited availability to prevent unauthorized access to
manholes. If a key is misplaced, lost, or stolen it can
significantly delay access into the manhole during emergencies,
maintenance or restoration efforts while a duplicate key is being
located. If a key is stolen or a misplaced key is found by an
unauthorized individual, a bad actor could readily gain access
into any of the manholes the key is designed for. Over time
locks can degrade or become contaminated making them inaccessible even with the correct key.
Once security is breached, the ability to change the lock may be limited and may often be
deemed impractical for the manhole owner. This keyed locking method is also used in barrier
devices and is designed to fit just below the manhole cover also
relying on repair crews to track and secure keys in between uses.
Multiple key types may also be required to manage different
manufacture types - further complicating the access and restoration
processes. There are also more advanced manhole entry devices
available that are made from composite materials (rather than
metal). These can have built in security locks with the added
benefit of eliminating any scrap value for potential thieves but have the same concerns with keys
as other locking or barrier devices. It should also be noted that barrier devices can be potentially
defeated from below if access can be gained through a tunnel, vault, or conduit from any non-
Page 8 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
secured access point along the route. Intrusion alarms and video surveillance may offer an
additional layer of security if available or coupled with other securing techniques; however, they
still cannot prevent unauthorized access or potential intrusion threats.
4.1.2 Asset Protection
Communication providers have an inherent incentive to protect their assets and it is up to each
provider to assess risk and determine how they will best secure those assets. There are a
multitude of factors that must be considered when identifying the physical security options for
manholes. One such factor is ownership of the various manholes, vaults, and/or ducts/tunnels
the facilities go through along a route. Responsibility for managing the security and access of
manholes range from private companies, including network providers, consortiums providing
access to multiple entities, other utilities (e.g., power, gas, or water), or those publicly owned by
state or local government entities. Critical circuits may traverse through several different
underground routes that are owned by multiple entities that may provide various levels of
security (if any). In densely populated cities where multiple utilities often share common routes,
tunnels, or conduits there is also the issue of managing shared access to manholes. In some
scenarios the manhole owner provides stringent procedures for requesting access and maintains
full responsibility for opening and closing the access points. In other cases, the manhole owner
may opt to contract out that task or provide unhindered and unsupervised access to tenants and
other authorized personnel using their own internal processes. Cables can also leave the
underground and go aerial at many different points along a route adding network vulnerabilities.
Additionally, communication providers must consider any current federal, state or local laws
pertaining to the securing of manholes as well as restrictions that may prevent physical security
for safety reasons (e.g., OSHA regulations). Further, providers must consider Service Level
Agreements (SLAs) entered into with their customers. The need to physically secure manholes
may also be prompted by a real or potential threat brought to the attention of manhole owners by
various law enforcement agencies or through their own internal security sources. In addition to
communication security risks, large scale venue events and events where senior government
leaders will travel along a planned route may warrant special manhole security as part of the
event planning process regardless of any real risk or threat to communications. It is important to
note that geographic topology or location may also negate the need for physical securing of a
Page 9 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
manhole. For example, there are many manholes that commonly fill with water when unattended
and must be pumped out before access to cables can be made. Unauthorized access in these
cases would be hazardous and difficult to accomplish due to the naturally occurring barrier. In
addition to all the concerns mentioned above, there is an underlying cost for communication
providers to police and manage manhole access that goes beyond physical security and adds
another layer into the complexity of the issue.
4.1.3 Network Resiliency
Communication and emergency services are more defensible when critical infrastructure is
physically secured and selective diversity is implemented to provide resiliency. This strategy
provides for a more flexible approach to the issue, limits potential impact to providers and
consumers and provides for shorter restoration and recovery timeframes. One measure of
network resiliency is the amount of time it takes to fully recover from an event and restore
normal operations. The quicker the recovery, the more resilient the system will be.3 In 2009, the
National Infrastructure Protection Plan published by the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) defined resilience as “…the ability to resist, absorb, recover from, or successfully adapt to
adversity or a change in conditions.”4 Risk is more fully diminished through redundancies in
network components (reliability), route diversity designed by providers and their customers
(alternate routes), and detailed plans for recovery as a result of an event (business continuity).
Rather than singularly limiting access to the manholes where cables may traverse,
communication providers should also consider designing mission critical circuits to include
resiliency, which will make them far more protected and able to withstand deliberate damage.
One method used to achieve resiliency is physical route diversity, which involves protection by
designing one side of a critical circuit (working) to traverse over one unique route while the other
side of the circuit (standby or protect) traverses over another unique non-intersecting distance
separated route. In some cases this diversity is enhanced by continuous utilization of both routes
making disruption of one virtually transparent to message delivery. Another method for
3 Moteff, J. D. (2012, August 23). Critical Infrastructure Resilience: The Evolution of Policy and
Programs and Issues for Congress. Retrieved January 19, 2014, from FAS CRS:
https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/R42683.pdf
4 Department of Homeland Security, National Infrastructure Protection Plan: Partnering to
Enhance Protection and Resiliency, 2009, p. 111.
Page 10 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
attaining the same resiliency could be through the use of a mesh network architecture where a
combination of protected and unprotected circuits are engineered in a way that allows traffic to
self-heal around a damaged portion of the route as illustrated in Figure 15.
Figure 1 – Mesh Architecture
Other methods that achieve resiliency may involve a combination of terrestrial and satellite,
wireless and wireline, utilizing multiple providers, or consumers building a portion of the
network themselves. The utilization of high capacity fiber network components along with
protocols utilizing packet management dramatically increases diversity options. Regardless of
the method(s) used to attain it, owners of critical circuits should periodically review
recommendations outlined in existing industry Best Practices regarding diversity and apply them
to the extent practicable and/or feasible for their business.
Consumers should also consider their responsibility in ensuring their mission critical circuits are
designed with resiliency in mind. In February 2006, the Alliance for Telecommunications
Industry Solutions (ATIS) published the National Diversity Assurance Initiative (NDAI)6 to
“provide customers with the knowledge they need to identify the diversity risks that exist in their
current telecommunications environment. It also provided them with terminology that could be
used to establish a common understanding with carriers when evaluating circuits for diversity
assessment and assurance, as well as how circuits are engineered to address diversity concerns.
Customers could then better determine the acceptable level of risk as it pertains to their
5 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:SBPP-after_failure_and_recovery.jpg
6 ATIS-I-0000041, National Diversity Assurance Initiative, February 2006, Page 16.
Page 11 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
telecommunications services.” As well, a January 2006 report by the Critical Infrastructure Task
Force of the Homeland Security Council concluded that a strategy based on resilience would
foster consideration of a broader range of options to help reduce the risks associated with the loss
of critical infrastructure. The Task Force did not suggest that resilience replace protection
efforts, but that resilience offered an overarching strategy that included protection, preparedness,
and efforts to prevent attacks from happening.7 These customer efforts at assuring diversity
appropriate to their application should be ongoing in recognition that technologies evolve.
7 Homeland Security Advisory Council. Report of the Critical Infrastructure Task Force.
January 2006.
Page 12 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
4.2 Findings
WG7’s research into this issue found several existing documents discussing recommendations
for the securing of manhole covers. Some limited their recommendations and focused on
installing special locking devices on manhole covers in and around facilities8, while others
suggested that a combination of statutory requirements, fund allocations, and tax and insurance
credits be applied to a tiered geographic implementation and noted that this approach was the
“most practical, effective, and affordable means to protect these underground assets.”9 Another
document adopted a resolution that supported the securing of nine million manholes in the
nation's metropolitan and urban areas through federal policy, study and funding to secure our
cities' vulnerable underground infrastructure by protecting it against breaches of our most critical
manholes.10 These documents, which we found insightful, focused singularly on physical
manhole security but did not address an equally critical component of this issue; which is
limiting potential impact through the use of network resiliency.
8Joint DHS and FBI Information Bulletin, Title: Potential Threat to Homeland Using Heavy
Transport Vehicles, Date: July 30, 2004, page 6 of 7.
9Manhole Security, Protecting America’s Critical Underground Infrastructure, Irwin M. Pikus,
PH.D., J.D., November 2006, page 17.
10 The United States Conference of Mayors, 2007 Adopted Resolutions Criminal and Social
Justice, Protecting City Critical Assets Underground Infrastructure and Manhole Security.
Page 13 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
4.3 Recommendations
As outlined in Figure 2, in order to strike a manhole security balance, one side must consider the
need to provide physical security from known threats, recognize customer Service Level
Agreement (SLA) requirements, identify shared manhole access points, and respond to large
venue events and government leader protection issues. As well, providing selective facility route
diversity, component redundancy, flexible technologies, reliable network elements, and an
overall resilient network must be taken into consideration. When these components are in
balance, the network is better prepared to absorb, resist, adapt, and speedily recover from a
manhole security related event.
Figure 2 – Physical and Network
WG7 identified current Industry Best Practices that address network diversity and resiliency as
discussed in this Interim Report which are provided in the table below. WG7 recommends that
communication providers incorporate these Best Practices as part of their resiliency design
process for mission critical circuits where practical and feasible.
Page 14 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
NUMBER BEST PRACTICE
Network Operators should develop an engineering design for critical network elements and inter-office
9-7-0549 facilities that addresses diversity, and utilize management systems to provision, track and maintain that
inter-office and intra-office diversity.
Network Diversity: Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure that networks built with
9-7-5075 redundancy are also built with geographic separation where feasible (e.g., avoid placing mated pairs in
the same location and redundant logical facilities in the same physical path).
Network Operators and Service Providers should, where feasible, provide both physical and logical
9-7-5079 diversity of critical facilities links (e.g., nodal, network element). Particular attention should be paid to
telecom hotels and other concentration points.
Network Operators and Service Providers should identify and manage critical network elements and
9-7-1065 architecture that are essential for network connectivity and subscriber services considering security,
functional redundancy and geographical diversity.
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide physical diversity on critical inter-office and
9-8-0731 wireless backhaul routes when justified by a risk or value analysis.
Network Operators should evaluate the priority on re-establishing diversity of facility entry points
9-9-5252 (e.g., copper or fiber conduit, network interfaces for entrance facilities) during the restoration process.
Table 4- Diversity Best Practices
Appendix 1 outlines a new Best Practice recommendation that focuses on this issue. This Best
Practice is associated with communication provider processes that at least one or more providers
currently perform. WG7 also recommends that the CSRIC Council approve this report and the
new Manhole Security Best Practice.
WG7 also recommends that the FCC consider a future CSRIC Working Group charter item to
contact non-communication sectors to determine if current Best Practices exist in these sectors
that could be applied to the communication sector regarding the issue of Manhole Security.
Page 15 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
5 Conclusions
WG7 carefully evaluated the issue of manhole security from a number of perspectives. In
consideration of recent intrusion events, the team took a real-world look at the issue. When
considering an outside plant intrusion scenario, whether related to manholes, utility poles, utility
boxes, vaults, etc., we found that similar security concerns exist. In fact, securing some
geographical portion of the millions of manholes across the country or even securing all of them
still leaves the network vulnerable. Various methods of routing underground and aerial cables
are widely used to routinely carry mission critical circuits, both in urban and rural geographical
settings. WG7 also considered the issue of how an intruder would know with any accuracy or
certainty what traffic is riding any given route. It seemed that it would generally be more
coincidental that a mission critical circuit would happen to be on a damaged facility than for an
act to transpire based on real knowledge (unless some type of insider information had been
shared). It was rationalized that in the event of an act of intentional sabotage or terrorism, a
determined person(s) would be likely to defeat any manhole cover security if the desire was
strong enough. Based on this and common industry practice, WG7 determined that the most
common method of securing manholes is through spot welding. It has proven to be effective
where justified and limits unauthorized access while not incurring the potential issues associated
with other keyed security measures. WG7 concluded that millions of manhole covers have been
in place for decades that have not experienced unauthorized access and/or vandalism. As such,
these locations do not need to be further secured, unless a communications company becomes
aware of a viable threat, issue or concern. WG7 further agreed that there are situations and
reasons that a subset of manholes should be further secured; however it should be up to the
manhole owner to complete a risk analysis and determine which method is appropriate to utilize.
In situations where law enforcement and/or internal security information identifies and presents a
viable threat, cooperation by the manhole owner(s) is warranted and encouraged in order to
protect our nation’s critical infrastructure. In cases where non-communication utilities,
consortiums, or municipalities operate the manholes that communication cables traverse, all
parties should be encouraged to consider these security issues. WG7 also concluded that in order
to provide the highest level of critical infrastructure security, network resiliency is needed. As
discussed earlier, communication providers and their end user customers must collaboratively
Page 16 of 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
Interim Report – March 2014
work to design and implement a level of network resiliency that appropriately balances physical
security, network resiliency, and cost benefit.
Page 17 of 186 Appendix 1 – Best Practices
Recommendations for Best Practices:
Working Group 7 - Legacy Best Practices Updates recommends the following Best Practice to address the issue of Manhole Security.
CSRIC IV CSRIC IV
Best
Best (New/Changed/
Practice
Practice CSRIC IV Best Practice CSRIC IV BP Reference/Comments Unchanged/
Status
Number Deleted)
BEST PRACTICES NEW
Manhole Security: Network Operators and Property Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
Managers should consider additional security measures for Wireless; Wireline
critical infrastructure utility vaults and manholes when
presented with a viable threat or recommendation by law Industry Role(s): Network Operator; Property
enforcement and/or internal security. Manager
Highly
WG7-1-1 New
Keywords(s): Access Control; Buildings; Important
Transport Facilities; Network Design; Physical
Security Management
Remark(s): Facilities requested to be secured by
public safety should be considered critical.
Page 18 of 18
