PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric5/WG4A_Final_091416.pdf:
AUGUST 2016 WORKING GROUP 4A
SUBMARINE CABLE
RESILIENCY
Final Report – Clustering of Cables and Cable LandingsTable of Contents
BACKGROUND ON CSRIC V AND WORKING GROUP 4A ...................... 1
Objectives and Methods .......................................................................................... 1
Membership ............................................................................................................ 1
BACKGROUND ................................................................................................... 3
Significance of Geographic Diversity for Network Protection and Resilience ...... 3
Key Concepts .......................................................................................................... 3
FACTORS INFLUENCING ROUTING OF SUBMARINE CABLES AND
LANDING SITES ................................................................................................. 5
Economic Opportunities ......................................................................................... 5
Regulatory Factors .................................................................................................. 6
Seafloor Topology .................................................................................................. 8
Proximity to Other Marine Infrastructure ............................................................... 9
Access to Terrestrial Networks ............................................................................. 10
RECOMMENDATIONS .................................................................................... 10
Recommendations ................................................................................................. 10
iiBACKGROUND ON CSRIC V AND WORKING GROUP 4A
Objectives and Methods
The Federal Communication Commission (“FCC” or “Commission”) tasked the
Submarine Cable Routing and Landing Working Group of CSRIC IV (“WG8”) with the
responsibility of examining the risks posed to submarine cable infrastructure and how
proximity to other marine activities, governmental permitting processes, and clustering of
cable routes and landings can increase the risk of cable damage. This, in turn, has the
potential to affect U.S. network reliability. In December 2014, WG8 submitted a final
report on spatial separation. The Submarine Cable Resiliency Working Group of CSRIC
V (“WG4A”) continued the work begun during CSRIC IV. In June 2016, WG4A
submitted a final report on intergovernmental and interjurisdictional coordination. This
report examines the key factors that influence routing of submarine cables and landing
site locations.
Membership
WG4A consists of approximately 22 members. They represent diverse interests
including submarine cable operators, cable system customers, cable system suppliers,
marine services consultants, federal energy agencies, and state regulators, all with subject
matter expertise to accomplish WG4A’s objectives.
1WG4A MEMBERS AND PARTICIPANTS
NAME ORGANIZATION
Kent Bressie, Co-Chair Harris, Wiltshire & Grannis LLP, on behalf of the North
American Submarine Cable Association
Catherine Creese, Co-Chair U.S. Naval Seafloor Cable Protection Office
Denise Coca, FCC Liaison Telecommunications & Analysis Division, International
Bureau, Federal Communications Commission
Michael Connelly, FCC Policy and Licensing Division, Public Safety and
Liaison Homeland Security Bureau, Federal Communications
Commission
Jerome Stanshine, FCC Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability
Liaison Division, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission
Steve Balk Sprint
Stephen Bowler* Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Allan Creamer* Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Seth Davis SRD Associates LLC
Jennifer Golladay Office of Renewable Energy Programs, Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department of the
Interior
Kurt Johnson Pacific Crossing
Amy Marks XSite Modular
Jennifer Miller Office of Renewable Energy Programs, Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department of the
Interior
Mikal Modisette Verizon
Wayne Pacine Federal Reserve Board of Governors
Ronald Rapp TE SubCom
Neil Rondorf Leidos (also Chairman, International Cable Protection
Committee)
Nikki Shone Southern Cross Cables
Rick Spencer CenturyLink
Takahiro Sumimoto Pacific Crossing
Robert Wargo AT&T (also President, North American Submarine
Cable Association)
Al Wissman National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S.
Department of Commerce
* As an independent regulatory agency, FERC and its personnel are not formal
members of WG4A and participate only in an informal, advisory capacity.
2BACKGROUND
Significance of Geographic Diversity for Network Protection and Resilience
As explored in some detail in the CSRIC IV Report on Spatial Separation,1 submarine
cable operators and their customers have long sought to maximize geographic diversity of
submarine cable routes and landings in order to enhance network resilience and reduce
the risk of damage from a single event, whether a tsunami, a vessel anchor, fishing gear,
or a terrorist attack. Nevertheless, submarine cable operators do not operate in a vacuum.
They must account for a variety of factors in deciding where to route and land cables, and
many of these factors remain entirely beyond their control. Moreover, they operate in a
dynamic U.S. coastal and marine environment that is increasingly crowded and that lacks
a single landowner or a single marine spatial planning regulator. Other activities and
infrastructure are frequently authorized without regard to the potential to foreclose
particular areas to future submarine cable development, increasing the potential for
clustering of cables and landings, and the risks inherent in non-diverse infrastructure.
In this report, WG4A examines the factors that influence routing and landing of
submarine cables and what the FCC might do within its statutory jurisdiction to enhance
geographic diversity in order to promote network resilience.
Key Concepts
Diversity. Routing diversity is a fundamental concept in cable system construction. In
fact, route diversity and all of its manifestations should be considered industry “Best
Practices.” Route diversity is generally defined as the routing between two points over
more than one geographic or physical path with no common points. While there are cost
and regulatory considerations to diverse paths as discussed in CSRIC IV Report on
Spatial Separation, this report will focus on methods of increasing diversity at the landing
point. End point separation, by adding diversity at the landing point, is ideal to reduce
vulnerability.
When discussing diversity in cable system landing points there are several routing
elements to achieve diversity including:
 Beach Manhole (BMH)
 Outside Plant (OSP)
 Cable Landing Station (CLS)
1 Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council, Working Group 8 Submarine
Cable Routing and Landing Final Report—Protection of Submarine Cables Through Spatial
Separation at 3 (Dec. 2014)
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG8_Report1_3Dec2014.pdf, (“CSRIC IV
Report on Spatial Separation”).
3Redundancy. After all efforts have been made to provide redundancy using physically
diverse routes, reliability may be further enhanced by including appropriate levels of
redundancy within the CLS. While there is redundancy built into most systems within
the CLS, the submarine cable industry has not adopted a standard set of redundancy
criteria.
Resiliency. After diversity/redundancy strategies have been implemented, it is up to each
system component to resist a particular threat. Methods of increasing a component’s
resiliency are critical to maintaining reliability. Use of the term “resiliency” in this
context is the ability of the individual submarine cables, shore infrastructure, OSP, or
CLS to resist damage or failure or else have the ability to be quickly (or quickly enough)
repaired and returned to an operating status. “Network resiliency” makes uses of
redundant segments to reroute telecom traffic if one segment has failed.
Physical Parts of a Submarine Cable System
Beach Manhole (BMH). The Beach Manhole is a concrete chamber, buried into the
beach, or road behind the landing point, where the submarine cable is terminated and
from where the OSP fiber cable and power cable are routed to the CLS. Most manholes
are designed to take more than one cable, most commonly two. Additionally, landing
points with clustered cables may see multiple beach manholes in proximity to each other.
While these two situations are cost effective, it may not reduce the risk of failure as a
single localized event could disrupt multiple cables such as a beach wash out due to a
hurricane or due to backhoe damage across two cables at the same time. Risk may be
mitigated with limiting the number of cables per manhole and requiring minimum
distances between manholes.
Cable Landing Station (CLS). The cable landing station is a building that provides the
enclosure, power and cooling required for the power feeding equipment and submarine
line terminal equipment (together, dry plant). For enhanced reliability, diverse routing
could also employ distinct termination equipment as this would mitigate the vulnerability
of a common single point of failure at either end of the connections.
The decision to land a new cable into an existing CLS is heavily influenced by available
station capacity, contracted landing party, and schedule due to permitting processes.
However, this leads to system vulnerability as a station failure may cause catastrophic
conditions. Outages may occur due to terrorist acts, natural disasters, power failures, and
equipment failure within the station.
There are ways to mitigate risk including dedicated CLSs for each system or isolated
space, power, and cooling for each system within a shared CLS.
4The CLS is the primary means of protecting the dry plant from threats, below are the
areas of the CLS that must be considered:
 Protection from physical threats (intrusion, ballistic, surveillance)
 Protection from natural disasters (fire, lightning, wind, flood, seismic)
 Quality of space within the station(suitability of building for use as a CLS, quality
of construction)
Outside Plant (OSP). We define OSP as the conduits, fiber cable, and power cable
between the BMH and the CLS. Diverse outside plant routes between the BMH(s) and
the CLS(s) are valuable for reducing vulnerability either by human induced hazards
(digging), or natural hazards (flooding or wash outs).
Wet Plant. The wet plant is the term for the submarine cable, along with its repeaters,
joint boxes, and branching units. Techniques and equipment that make the wet plant
“resilient” are cable routing to avoid hazards, cable burial and armor to protect it from
anchoring or fishing gear, and cable awareness and charting efforts or cable awareness
programs to prevent potentially damaging encounters in the first place.
Factors Influencing Routing of Submarine Cables and Landing Sites
Economic Opportunities
The submarine cable landing site is selected primarily on the basis of access to a carrier,
content provider, or cloud services provider’s point-of-presence (POP) or data center and
on capacity demand. Other economic factors may also influence the landing site, such as
negotiations with other economic stakeholders, including commercial fishermen and
other government, tribal, and/or private landowners.
The demand may also result in several competing cables landing in the same metro area.
Alternatively, private network operators may be driven by owning their own submarine
cable or fiber pair in order to control costs and security. For these cable owners, access
to their private data centers, which may be located away from a large metropolitan area,
is the driving consideration.
Cost of construction is driven by submarine cable length from landing point to landing
point, length of the continental shelf where cable must be armored and buried (which is
more costly than cable and installation in deep water), access to existing terrestrial cable
infrastructure including outside plant cable, CLS, and backhaul from CLS to POP or
cloud exchange. A landing site resulting in a short OSP route to CLS or cloud exchange
will be more economical. Many purchasers may choose sites with existing shore end
infrastructure and network access. Thus cables are congregated at or near the same
landing, if not in the same beach manhole, which is often the case.
If capacity demand is high enough in a region to support the business case, development
of a new landing site may be undertaken requiring new investment in seabed leases,
5beach and OSP land leases, and OSP and CLS construction. Income must be sufficient to
cover construction and operation and maintenance costs within the required payback
period.
The business case on the investment is also driven by duration of the project. Projects
undertaken in areas and states where regulatory and permitting times are long may be less
attractive than sites that can be permitted more quickly.
Requirements for route redundancy (to provide network resilience and higher
availability) drives requirements for multiple diverse routes.
Operational costs including long term annual lease of seabed, landing site properties,
security, staffing, and maintenance and repair costs are also factors influencing the
selection of a landing site and cable route. This is factored into the business case.
On the U.S. East Coast, existing landing sites are clustered in the Northeast including
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, and in the Southeast along the
Florida coast in three primary locations. On the U.S. West Coast, existing landing sites
are located in Northwest in Washington and Oregon and in the Southwest in Northern,
Central, and Southern California. Landing sites connect Alaska and Hawaii to the U.S.
mainland.
In almost all cases, landing sites are developed to support multiple submarine cables.
Regulatory Factors
Laws or regulation may bar the presence of undersea cables in certain areas thus leading
to clustering in locations away from restricted areas. For example, the State of Florida
prohibits the landing of cables in the Keys and certain Gulf coast counties. In other areas
of the state, undersea cables are required to negotiate “reef gaps” to get to the landing
point, these gaps themselves may serve to create a cluster of cables. In other places, the
presence of a National Marine Sanctuary may prohibit the presence of an undersea cable
or make conditions on its presence in a sanctuary so onerous that the cable proponents
choose to go elsewhere. A more thorough treatment of National Marine Sanctuaries can
be found in Section 4.6 of the CSRIC V Report on Interagency and Interjurisdictional
Coordination.
In areas where there are no regulatory bars to the presence of a cable, the decision to land
in one spot or another may come down to the ease of permitting (lower cost, shorter
duration, less uncertainty) in each location. For example, like most other jurisdictions on
the U.S. West Coast, the State of Oregon requires cable owners to become members of a
Cable/Fishing Liaison Committee. However, in Oregon, once that step is complete, the
remainder of the permitting process is relatively easy. California is typically more
expensive and takes longer, as the permit and easement acquisition processes are not as
clearly defined. Not only are durations and costs of initial permitting higher in California
as compared to Oregon, ongoing costs are higher as well. The submerged lands easement
in Oregon has no yearly fee while in California it is on the order of $5-6/linear foot
6within the 3 nautical mile state sovereign seabed (depending on the route of the cable on
the order of $100K/year). Overall, the easier process and lower costs of one state make it
a preferred landing choice. Finally, states that have not traditionally been landing sites
for undersea cables may not have a fully developed permitting regime able to deal with
them. In this case the cable owner may continue to avoid the state with no cable landing,
preferring a known permitting regime over an uncertain one.
At the Federal level, the variation in application of regulations between various Army
Corps’ Districts is another factor that may influence choice of landing sites. As described
in more detail in the CSRIC V Report on Interagency and Interjurisdictional
Coordination, the Army Corps determines what form of permit is appropriate: individual,
through a standard permit or letter of permission; or general, through a regional general
permit (“RGP”), programmatic general permit (“PGP”) or nationwide permit (“NWP”).2
Because this determination is conducted at a District level, there are variations in analysis
of impacts. In addition, one District may place more onerous requirements on the survey
and installation leading to higher costs and longer project durations. A proponent may
therefore avoid one District in preference for more predictable or favorable permitting in
a neighboring District.
As described in a later section of this report and in detail in CSRIC IV Report on Spatial
Separation,3 the siting and licensing of ocean energy projects can directly affect existing
and proposed submarine cables. Similarly, installation of a submarine cable across
existing energy infrastructure on the outer continental shelf would be detrimental to both
and those effects would need to be addressed during the siting of the cable. Project
proponents and agencies are currently working through the siting of proposed submarine
cables and proposed wind energy infrastructure offshore of Virginia Beach, Virginia.
Environmental conditions such as the existence of endangered species will lead to
mitigation measures that may play into the decision to land in one location or another.
On the West Coast of the United States, it is unlikely that mitigation measures for the
protection of marine mammals and other marine wildlife can be avoided no matter which
state a cable owner chooses. Similarly, mitigation to avoid damage to corals, sea grass,
and mangroves is unlikely to be avoided anywhere in Florida or the Caribbean.
However, some mitigation measures lead directly to clustering. Off San Luis Obispo,
California cables are required to avoid hard bottom to the maximum extent and all
traverse an area which came to be known as the “sand channel” where cables can be
buried, effectively clustering all the cables there in one small area.
2 Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council, Working Group 4A Submarine
Cable Resiliency Final Report—Interagency and Interjurisdictional Coordination at 13 (June 2016)
https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric5/WG4A_Report-Intergovernmental-
Interjurisdictional-Coordination_June2016.pdf.
3 CSRIC IV Report on Spatial Separation at 36-41.
7Seafloor Topology
In developing a route design for a new submarine cable, the topology of the seafloor
plays an integral role in the final path chosen, and many elements known of from regional
oceanographic charts, or found on the seafloor during the route survey, can lead to the
clustering of cables into specific areas.
Cables that are laid in deep-water beyond the reach of bottom-trawling gear and anchors
(approximately >1,500m) are several times cheaper to manufacture and install than cables
that are laid on the continental shelf. They also tend to suffer fewer cable breaks over the
life of the system. Cable routes therefore attempt to minimize their length in areas of
shallow topology, or avoid it completely. By way of an example the majority of Trans-
Atlantic cables divert south of the shortest “Great Circle” path to skirt the Flemish Cap
and Grand Banks off Newfoundland. Such topographic features drive the clustering of
cables, with separation distances at the minimum allowing them to be maintained.
Every trans-oceanic cable system must cross the continental shelf margin, an area
characterized by steep slopes, submerged canyons, rocky ridges, and usually high levels
of seismic activity. Submarine cables are vulnerable to breakage by abrasion, debris
flows and rock-falls, so a route is chosen which avoids areas of potential instability.
These areas can be few and far between, so cables can become clustered together at the
known optimal locations to transition from the shallow sea to the deep ocean.
Once the approximate path of the cable has been decided, marine route surveys are
conducted to create a survey chart that describes the seabed conditions and reveals the
presence of, among other items, seamounts, steep slopes, rocky outcrops, and near shore,
the presence of rocks or rock beds, which may hinder the ability to bury the cable.
Seamounts and steep slopes can create cable suspensions and possible complications
during installation. Cables against any form of rock whether it be outcrops or simple flat
rock beds, can lead to abrasion and possible failure over the life of the cable.
When near shore, in waters generally less than 1,500 meters of depth, there is often the
need or requirement to bury the cable, either for its own protection or the prevention of
disrupting the commercial fishing industry, or both. The requirement to bury a cable then
further complicates the marine route survey to not only avoid geographic seabed reliefs
and rock beds, but to locate suitable substrate (soft bottom), that will be conducive to
cable burial.
The identification of seafloor obstacles and suitable soft bottom substrate, combined with
what could be the desirability of a chosen landing area by multiple submarine cable
systems due to other factors discussed within this report, can lead to the clustering of
cables through the least obstructive paths possible.
8Proximity to Other Marine Infrastructure
Generally, new cables are routed to avoid other existing (or planned) marine
infrastructure that could impact either the initial installation or ability to perform long
term maintenance on the cable or nearby infrastructure. A safety zone distance is
normally determined by water depth, normally two or three water depths as a rule of
thumb. In shallow water an absolute minimum distance of 500 meters is normally used.
These distances, as discussed in more detail in the CSRIC IV Report on Spatial
Separation4, are derived by the ability to navigate and maneuver a cable ship when
installing and maintaining the cables, and the ability to grapnel and recover cables for
repair. If it is not possible to comply with these keep away distances, an agreement on
procedures to be used should be reached between the owners prior to commencing
construction so that each other’s assets are protected from damage.
In addition to other telecom cables, marine infrastructure includes, among other things:
power cables, oil and gas pipelines, sewer outfalls, docks, piers, renewable energy
facilities, oil and gas drill and production facilities, artificial reefs, tidal flow energy
turbines, wave power devices, deep sea mining leases, oil and gas leases, LNG terminals,
and navy acoustic ranges.
It remains to be seen whether other marine infrastructure, such as oil and gas exploration
or marine renewable energy will have a significant effect on the routing of submarine
cables or the selection of landing sites for those cables. Elsewhere in the world
submarine cables and other marine infrastructure coexist quite well in close proximity
due to a well-established working relationship between industries, as well as the
application of established industry recommendations and guidelines, such as those of the
International Cable Protection Committee and the European Subsea Cables Association
(formerly Subsea Cables UK). For example, in the North Sea submarine cables share the
seabed with oil rigs, pipelines, electrical cables and—more recently—renewable energy
facilities. The long working relationship between the multiple industries has led to the
use of both crossing and proximity agreements which specify the technical and
commercial details of the interactions of the various infrastructure throughout the life
cycle of both projects. Unlike crossing agreements between telecom cable owners, which
are typically by email, other infrastructure (particularly pipelines) require legal
documents to determine liability if damage occurs. These documents are often lengthy
and take months to negotiate. In addition, the engineering solution at the crossing point
between a cable and pipeline—a more involved operation than a cable to cable
crossing—will often require spacers, bridges, or mattresses.
In the United States, crossing agreements are only beginning to be used as there has not
been a great deal of interaction between the various industries. The oil and gas industry
is primarily located in the Gulf of Mexico, California, and Alaska, and there is little
presence of submarine telecommunications cables in those locations. The marine
4 Id. at 9, 48-49, 57-58.
9renewable industry is in its infancy in the United States and it is just beginning to affect
the routing of submarine cables and the selection of landing sites. As the marine
renewable industry grows in the United States, crossing agreements will certainly be
used; for example, a formal crossing agreement was negotiated relating to the export
cable for the Block Island Wind Farm.
Access to Terrestrial Networks
Access to terrestrial networks is one of the key considerations when planning a
submarine cable landings site. Significant terrestrial cost can be avoided by landing at an
existing submarine cable landing site with terrestrial network access already in place,
provided that there is a market for the additional capacity. Alternatively, private network
operators may be driven by owning their own submarine cable or fiber pair in order to
control costs and security.
Terrestrial network cost includes the construction of OSPs, CLSs, and backhaul from
CLS to POP or cloud exchange. A landing site resulting in a short OSP route to CLS or
cloud exchange will be more economical.
A new terrestrial network access point may be driven by a requirement for route
redundancy (network resilience) and diverse routes.
Recommendations
Recommendations
As an initial matter, it must be noted that these recommendations are necessarily limited,
given the statutory jurisdiction of the FCC5. The FCC is not a marine planning agency
with broad regulatory or policy authority over marine industries and activities. Neither is
it a single coastal landowner (such as the Crown Estate in the United Kingdom), with the
ability to enforce a consistent approach in all U.S. marine and coastal areas. Instead, the
FCC is a communications industry regulator with particular expertise in submarine
cables. With these limitations in mind, CSRIC V recommends that the FCC use its
expertise to highlight for other government agencies concerns about, and potential
measures to promote, geographic diversity of submarine cable routes and landings
through implementation of the following recommendations.
1. Encourage Interagency and Interjurisdictional Cooperation:
The FCC should encourage interagency and interjurisdictional cooperation to
streamline permitting; adopt more transparent and consistent permitting
processes, conditions, and timelines; and reduce permitting times. Timeframes
for environmental permitting at federal, state, and local levels usually last more
than a year and sometimes more than two years. These timeframes are too long
for an activity that is essentially environmentally benign. With such lengthy
5 See 47 U.S.C. § 151; Executive Order 10520.
10permitting timeframes, any location that offers a slightly shorter permitting
timeframe—so long as the permitting conditions are not too burdensome—
becomes a much more attractive option in order to satisfy “time to market”
concerns that confront new submarine cable developers—even the resulting
location reduces geographic diversity of submarine cables. Streamlining across
multiple jurisdictions would serve to reduce regional disparities, while reductions
in overall permitting timeframes would render less critical any small variations in
permit timing and burdens. As part of this process, the FCC should consult with
the Army Corps of Engineers regarding variations in the processes and permit
conditions employed by its various districts. Although the Army Corps is
decentralized, it acts pursuant to statutes and regulations with nationwide
applicability. The FCC should consider adoption of a submarine cable
permitting shot-clock for state and local permitting for submarine cables as a
means of highlighting the significant disparities in timing that submarine cable
operators experience, and as a basis of potential future interjurisdictional
discussions, including through the regional planning bodies.
2. Encourage Other Agencies to Consider Impacts On Submarine Cable
Diversity During Permitting Processes:
The FCC should encourage other federal, state, and local government agencies to
consider impacts on cable diversity during permitting for other marine activities.
As demonstrated in the CSRIC IV Report on Spatial Separation,6 there already
exists a problem in protecting existing submarine cable infrastructure from
damage by other marine activities as authorized by other federal, state, and local
government agencies. Similarly, there is a lack of awareness and/or focus on
foreclosure of particular submarine cable routes and landings, and on reductions
in geographic diversity of cables through authorization of other marine activities.
3. Evaluate the Role of NEPA and CZMA as a Coordination Mechanism:
The FCC should decline to rely on the National Environmental Policy Act
(“NEPA”) or the Coastal Zone Management Act (“CZMA”) as the principal
means of coordinating with other federal, state, and local government agencies.
NEPA exists to identify and evaluate potential environmental impacts of activities
authorized by federal agencies. The CZMA exists to coordinate environmental
protection efforts between the federal governments and the states, permitting the
adoption of state coastal zone management plans approved by the Secretary of
Commerce and consistency reviews by states regarding potential effects within
state territorial seas. Neither of these laws is a marine spatial planning law
designed to optimize the use of marine and coastal areas for particular activities of
national importance, whether for telecommunications and Internet connectivity or
development of renewable energy resources. Neither tasks government agencies
with assessing the impact of proposed activities on telecommunications network
resilience. In the absence of congressional action tasking a particular body with
6 See CSRIC IV Report on Spatial Separation.
11these responsibilities, the FCC should continue to coordinate with other federal,
state, and local agencies, particularly in the regional planning body process, to
address these issues.
4. Promote Further Industry-to-Industry Cooperation:
The FCC should promote further direct industry-to-industry coordination to
enhance diversity of submarine cable routes and landings. The submarine cable
industry has long engaged in direct consultations with other marine industries,
particularly the commercial fishing industry and offshore oil and gas industries, to
mitigate harmful impacts to their respective activities, equipment, and
infrastructure. While such industry efforts are sometimes insufficient, they should
not be supplanted entirely by governmental solutions. Consequently, in
coordinating with other federal, state, and local government agencies, the FCC
should recommend processes that encourage other marine industries to coordinate
with submarine cable operators at the earliest stages of project planning, and vice-
versa.
5. Encourage Cable Protection Zones:
The FCC should encourage the development of cable protection zones around
existing submarine cable infrastructure, which may include clustered facilities.
These zones would restrict within a defined proximity to existing submarine
cables certain activities that pose a risk of cable damage. As noted in the CSRIC
IV Report on Spatial Separation,7 cable protection zones have been used in other
jurisdictions—particularly Australia and New Zealand—to reduce the risk of
damage from a variety of marine activities to submarine cables providing vital
domestic and international telecommunications and Internet connectivity. Unlike
the recommendations outlined above, the recommendation for cable protection
zones would address the risks of existing infrastructure that cannot easily or
cheaply be moved.
7 Id. at 10.
12
