PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG3-EAS_SECURITY_FINAL_011316.pdf:
WORKING GROUP 3
Emergency Alert System (EAS)
EAS Security Subcommittee
Final Report
March 2015CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ............................................................................................................ 3
1.1 Executive Summary ............................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction ................................................................................................................. 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure .................................................................................................... 4
2.2 Working Group 3 EAS Security Subcommittee Team Members ............................ 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................... 7
3.1 Objective ................................................................................................................ 7
3.2 Scope .................................................................................................................... 7
3.3 Methodology .......................................................................................................... 7
4 Background ................................................................................................................. 8
5 Recommendations .................................................................................................... 10
5.1 Outreach Pathways ............................................................................................. 11
5.1.1 Government .................................................................................................. 11
5.1.1.1 FCC ........................................................................................................... 11
5.1.1.2 FEMA ......................................................................................................... 12
5.1.2 Industry Stakeholders & Constituencies ........................................................ 12
5.2 Outreach Methods ............................................................................................... 13
6 Conclusions .............................................................................................................. 15
2CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Federal Communications Commission (Commission or FCC) established the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) “…to provide
recommendations...to ensure, among other things, optimal security and reliability of
communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety." To
achieve that goal, CSRIC IV established and chartered ten "Working Groups" to
examine the various issues of concern in these areas.
Working Group 3 (WG3) was formed to develop recommendations for the CSRIC's
consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the Emergency
Alert System (EAS). WG3 was divided into three subcommittees: one to review FCC
rules and processes concerning state EAS Plans, one regarding EAS security, and one
to address EAS Operational Issues and the Nationwide EAS Test. Each group worked
with specific tasks and questions, as assigned by the Commission and the CSRIC.
This document was prepared by the CSRIC WG3 subcommittee on EAS security. It
identifies the principal groups associated with EAS as: EAS Participants, emergency
alert originators, EAS device manufacturers, the federal government, and local
emergency managers. This document complements the Initial Report submitted to the
CSRIC by this subcommittee in June 2014 (WG3 Initial Report) (available here). The
WG3 Initial Report addressed the need for information assurance and security controls
throughout the EAS ecosystem in the form of best practices guidelines for each of the
relevant stakeholders.
This report seeks to provide recommendations on how the Commission can promote
and facilitate both awareness and adoption of the “best practices” guidelines contained
in the WG3 Initial Report.
3CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
2 Introduction
CSRIC IV Working Group 3 was established to develop recommendations for the
CSRIC's consideration regarding any actions the FCC should take to improve the EAS.
To tackle the issues relevant to EAS, a diverse team of Subject Matter Experts was
recruited to participate. The following areas of expertise are represented within the
group.
 Message Originators: the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the
National Weather Service (NWS), State & Local Emergency Managers; State
EAS Networks.
 EAS Participants: Radio; TV; Cable TV; Satellite TV; Satellite Radio.
 EAS Equipment Manufacturers.
 State Emergency Communications Committees, EAS Experts and Consultants.
 Public Interest, Persons with Disabilities.
CSRIC Working Group 3 is divided into three sub-groups:
 State EAS Plans. Recommend steps to improve the process for developing and
submitting state EAS plans to the Commission. Consider the formation and role
of State Emergency Communications Committees (SECCs), and processes for
optimizing the EAS while minimizing burdens on EAS stakeholders. This
subcommittee submitted its final report to the CSRIC in March 2014.
 Nationwide EAS Test/Operational Issues. Address and explore operational
issues that arose during the nationwide EAS Test in November 2011. This
subcommittee submitted its final report to the CSRIC in June 2014.
 EAS Security. Recommend actions to improve promote the security of the EAS.
This subcommittee submitted its initial report to the CSRIC in June 2014.
 As documented herein, CSRIC subsequently tasked WGs with addressing
outreach and awareness regarding the recommendations contained in the
WG3 Initial Report.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 Group 5 Group 6 Group 7 Group 8 Group 9 Group 10
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Long-Term Legacy Submarine Infrastructure CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Core Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
4CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
2.2 Working Group 3 EAS Security Subcommittee Team Members
Working Group 3 consists of the members listed below. The WG3 Security
subcommittee for this Final Report consists of two Co-Chairs: Gary Smith and Larry
Walke.
Name Affiliation(s)
Adrienne Abbott Nevada EAS Chair
John Archer SiriusXM
John Benedict CenturyLink
Ron Boyer Boyer Broadband
Ted Buehner Warning Coordination Meteorologist National Weather Service
Ben Brinitizer Society of Broadcast Engineers
Lynn Claudy National Association of Broadcasters
Roswell Clark Cox Media Group
Kimberly Culp Larimer Emergency Telephone Authority
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics
David Donovan President, NY State Association of Broadcasters
Chris Fine Goldman Sachs
Clay Freinwald (WG 3 co-chair) Clay Freinwald Technical Services / Chair, Washington State
SECC
Les Garrenton LIN Media
Mike Gerber NOAA
Suzanne Goucher Maine Association of Broadcasters / Chair, Maine SECC
Neil Graves SNR Systems (formerly FEMA IPAWS)
William Hickey Premiere Radio Networks
Craig Hoden NOAA
Chris Homer Public Broadcasting Service
Steve Johnson Johnson Telecom
Alfred Kenyon FEMA IPAWS
Mark Lucero FEMA
Wayne Luplow LGE/Zenith Electronics
Bruce McFarlane Fairfax County
Dan Mettler Clear Channel Media + Entertainment / Chair Indiana SECC
David Munson FCC Liaison
Brian Oliger Hubbard Radio/WTOP
Darryl Parker TFT, Inc.
Rich Parker Vermont Public Radio /Chair, Vermont SECC
Jerry Parkins Comcast Cable
Efraim Petel AtHoc, Inc.
Richard Perlotto Shadowserver Foundation
Joey Peters MyStateUSA, Inc.
Peter Poulos Citi
Harold Price Sage Alerting Systems
5CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
Richard Rudman Broadcast Warning Working Group / Vice Chair, California SECC
Francisco Sanchez, Jr. Harris County (TX) Office of Homeland Security
Tim Schott NOAA
Andy Scott V.P. Engineering, NCTA
Bill Schully DIRECTV
Gary Smith Cherry Creek Radio, Arizona SECC
Matthew Straeb Global Security Systems/ALERT FM
Gary Timm Broadcast Chair, Wisconsin SECC
Leonardo Velazquez AT&T U-Verse
Larry Walke (WG3 co-chair) National Association of Broadcasters
Michael Watson Gray Television Group
Kelly Williams NAB
Reed Wilson Belo Corp.
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
6CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The charter for CSRIC IV calls on WG3 to “develop and provide recommendations on
how the Commission can promote and facilitate both awareness and adoption of the
“best practices” guidelines contained in the WG3 Initial Report. Particular focus should
be placed on awareness and adoption by EAS Participants and, in particular, the smaller
sized entities least likely to be aware of such guidelines, unsure of which guidelines
would be applicable to their operational situations, uncertain as to how to implement
those that do apply. Recommendations should also provide guidance to help such
entities overcome the obstacles that similarly situated EAS participants face.
3.2 Scope
The EAS Security Subcommittee considered the following sectors of the EAS
ecosystem regarding outreach and enhanced implementation of EAS security
measures:
 EAS Participants.
 Emergency Alert Originators.
 EAS Device Manufacturers.
 U.S. Government.
 Industry Associations.
This document addresses the immediate need to permeate the EAS ecosystem with
information and guidance regarding the security of EAS. Accordingly, we considered a
host of methods for increasing the awareness of all EAS stakeholders, including:
 Government-issued notices and documents.
 Internet-based outreach (e.g., webcasts, email, social media).
 Newsletters, trade publications.
 Education programs at conferences and conventions.
 Direct outreach to state-level EAS committees.
3.3 Methodology
The subcommittee used a collaborative, inclusive approach. Given the vast expertise of
various members, it was important to provide an open forum through which participants
could express their opinions and help shape this report. These discussions largely took
place during a series of weekly conference calls moderated by the subcommittee co-
chairs: Gary Smith of Cherry Creek Radio and Larry Walke of the National Association
of Broadcasters.
7CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
4 Background
EAS is the primary national warning system that provides the President with the means
to address the nation during a national crisis. State and local officials also use EAS to
issue warning messages about imminent or ongoing hazards in specific regions. Three
Federal agencies share responsibility for administering EAS: the FCC, FEMA, and the
National Weather Service.
Functionally, EAS is a hierarchical alert message distribution system. Initiating an EAS
message, whether at the national, state, or local level, requires the message initiator to
deliver specially-encoded messages to a broadcast station-based transmission
network that, in turn, delivers the messages to individual broadcasters, cable
operators, and other EAS Participants. EAS Participants maintain special encoding and
decoding equipment that can receive the message for retransmission to other EAS
Participants and to end users (broadcast listeners and cable and other service
subscribers).
The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) is the Nation’s next
generation public alerting system. It is designed to improve public safety through the
rapid dissemination of emergency messages to as many people as possible over as
many communications devices as possible. IPAWS builds additional redundancy in
EAS by establishing diverse dissemination paths including Internet Protocol networks.
IPAWS accepts standards-based alert and warning messages generated by
emergency managers using existing state, local, tribal, or territorial systems, or an
IPAWS web interface. These common alerting protocol (CAP) formatted messages are
then forwarded to the FEMA IPAWS aggregator, which disseminates the message
through all distribution means.
Since its inception, EAS has had vulnerabilities that have resulted in both accidental
and deliberate dissemination of unauthorized EAS alerts. Human error, the
retransmission of outdated alerts and the intentional transmission of the EAS data
bursts accompanied by the two-tone attention signal by unauthorized parties have
been documented.
The addition of the common alerting protocol (CAP) adds another gateway for
unwanted intrusion into the system through the public internet. CAP requires all EAS
decoders to be able to decode and relay CAP-formatted EAS messages which are
delivered over an Internet Protocol (IP) network from any of a number of government
and private CAP aggregators. Cyber-intrusions and attacks, whether by viruses,
malware, spyware, or other Information Technology (IT) security breaches – are on the
rise in in both public and private enterprise. EAS Participants now face additional
vulnerabilities as IP integration introduces a new gateway into the system.
Unauthorized EAS breaches over the past two years have illustrated that operational
security challenges range from those that could have been prevented by very
8CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
fundamental, common-sense measures, to those that may require proactive efforts by
the EAS Participant to better secure their IT enterprise.
The first step towards minimizing security risks to EAS is the development of
recommendations that are flexible and adaptable to various stakeholders in the EAS
ecosystem. As mentioned, the WG3 Initial Report contains such “Best Practices.”1
The next step requires education, increased awareness, and implementation of those
recommendations among EAS participants and other critical components of the EAS
system. It is vital that information and guidance is provided to all entities, including
those in small and rural communities, given both the “daisy-chain” nature of traditional
EAS and the IP nature and dependence of CAP-enabled EAS, as well as the confusion
that can result from the broadcast of improper or unauthorized EAS messages. It is
these smaller-sized entities that are most likely found at the end of the chain, and most
vulnerable to digital disruptions of their EAS operations. EAS Participants must
increase their awareness of the need to put basic policies, processes and products in
place to protect both themselves and the integrity of the nation’s public warning
system.
Smaller-sized and rural broadcast entities often face particular challenges in
maintaining awareness of current security measures, due to limited human, financial or
technical resources. In the case of smaller and rural radio stations, for example, many
do not employ a full-time engineering or operations staff, instead relying on
independent technical consultants that may handle operations and engineering matters
for multiple stations within a particular geographic region. While these consultants may
possess a range of technical skills and expertise, cybersecurity may not be one of
them. Moreover, the cost of needed upgrades, security issues and the time it takes to
fix problems may pose additional financial and resource challenges for smaller and
rural EAS Participants, compared to larger and better resourced operations. For the
same reasons, these broadcast EAS Participants may find it more difficult to maintain
awareness of FCC actions or recommendations regarding EAS security.
It is important that EAS Participants understand that neither the size of their operations,
nor the particular type of their business, lessen the risk from vulnerabilities or a
cyberattack. EAS Participants must appreciate that if they use the Internet – as
required for CAP-enabled EAS, and increasingly for other routine functions – they are
vulnerable. The goal of WG3 is to disseminate information about the best practices
recommended by CSRIC, with the ultimate objective of encouraging EAS Participants
to implement measures that reduce the risk of cyber breaches.
1 The WG3 Initial Report recommends measures concerning password security, firewalls,
equipment maintenance, secure physical and remote access to equipment, and
awareness of equipment manufacturer notifications, among other steps. WG3 Initial
Report at 11-13.
9CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
For these reasons, it is critical that consistent, tailored outreach methods be devised
and implemented to successfully penetrate the awareness of the full range of EAS
participants. WG3 considered this specific challenge in the development of the
recommendations set forth below. We considered the various industry groups that
represent EAS participants, equipment manufacturers that maintain communications
with their customers for purposes of system software upgrades and other product
opportunities, and government agencies like the FCC that license or authorize the
operations of all EAS participants.
5 Recommendations
WG3 recommends that the Commission develop and implement a schedule of multi-
faceted programs designed to educate the universe of EAS stakeholders regarding EAS
security, with a particular focus on outreach to smaller-sized and rural EAS participants.
An important component of these efforts centers on the content of such education. The
WG3 Initial Report contains a comprehensive list of cybersecurity best practices for the
various sectors of the EAS ecosystem, including EAS participants, EAS message
originators and other government bodies, and equipment manufacturers. However, that
document was designed for purposes of review by CSRIC members, most of whom have
some expertise in security or network issues. Accordingly, that report has a somewhat
complex format,2 sets forth only general categories of recommendations, and lacks any
detailed guidance on implementing the recommendations, thereby making it ill-suited for a
public advisory item.
For purposes of enhancing cybersecurity awareness among all EAS participants, WG3
recommends that the Commission consider developing a series of cybersecurity best
practices items. First, the Commission should prepare a user-friendly, manageable list of
recommended best practices for mitigating security risks to the EAS system of relevance
to the broad spectrum of EAS stakeholders.3 In addition, the Commission should consider
creating a set of best practices targeted to more narrow subsets of the EAS ecosystem,
non-enterprise based networked facilities such as smaller and rural radio EAS
participants, small cable systems, and large television groups, among others. This
approach should improve the Commission’s success in raising awareness of
cybersecurity risks among all EAS participants, and more importantly, widespread
implementation of measures designed to minimize those risks. Such a program would
also best enable state EAS committees, industry associations and other organizations to
support and extend the Commission’s outreach efforts, as discussed below.
2 The format of the WG3 Initial Report largely mirrors the Framework for Improving
Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity issued by the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) in February 2012 (available here).
3 WG3 notes that the appendix to the FCC’s Public Notice seeking comment on
implementation of best practices contained in the WG3 Initial Report could serve as a
model for such a document (available here).
10CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
The best practices should be prominently displayed and readily accessible on the FCC’s
website, and repeatedly flagged in relevant Commission documents and other venues.
Below we offer a series of specific proposals for educating EAS participants on
cybersecurity risks and mitigation measures.
5.1 Outreach Pathways
5.1.1 Government
5.1.1.1 FCC
FCC EAS Handbook. The EAS Operating Handbook summarizes the actions to be
taken by personnel at EAS Participants’ facilities upon receipt of an Emergency Alert
Notification (EAN) or State and Local Area alert. The Handbook is issued by the FCC,
and a copy of the Handbook must be located at normal duty positions or EAS equipment
locations when an operator is required to be on duty and be immediately available to
staff responsible for authenticating messages and initiating actions. 47 C.F.R. § 11.15.
The FCC issues several Handbooks, tailored for different categories of users: (1) TV; (2)
AM, FM and digital audio; (3) cable systems; (4) satellite; and (5) wireline video
providers.
Given the duty to maintain the EAS Handbook on site, and the fact that it is particularized
to various categories of EAS Participants, the handbook is an ideal resource for
information on cybersecurity. WG3 thus recommends that the Commission modify each
EAS Handbook to include recommended best practices for reducing cybersecurity risks,
relevant to each group of EAS participants.
FCC Webinars & Webcasts. The Commission periodically conducts online webinars
and webcasts on various policy issues, including security-related topics, such as Public
Safety Answering Point architecture, text-to-911, and 911 certification. WG3
recommends that the Commission hold an interactive webcast aimed at educating EAS
participants regarding cybersecurity. Such an event should be held in the near future
following the close of CSRIC IV -- no later than during October in connection with
National Cybersecurity Awareness month -- and thereafter annually in October, at a
minimum.
Public Advisories and Notices. WG3 recommends that the Commission issue a Public
Advisory to all EAS Participants reminding them of the digital vulnerabilities of EAS
systems and equipment, and recommending a list of best practices for addressing those
vulnerabilities. Such recommendations should also be noted in other EAS-related
documents, including docketed proceedings and FCC staff speeches and remarks.
11CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
5.1.1.2 FEMA
FEMA’s IPAWS Program Office has conducted several webinar series that have covered
a number of relevant topics:
Alert Origination Service Provider Series.
This series showcased products from vendors that have a Memorandum of Agreement
with IPAWS to demonstrate connectivity and validation of alerts sent to the IPAWS Lab
at the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) in Maryland (e.g., WEA, EAS, NWEM)
and user interfaces with the consumer (e.g., geotargeting, selection criteria).
Unique Alert Services.
This event showcased products from vendors that are designed to monitor the IPAWS
All-Hazards Information Feed (IPAWS Public Feed) and redistribute them through
various channels (e.g., internet, subscriptions, digital signs).
Alerting Best Practices Webinar Series.
IPAWS is currently offering webinars of a wide range of topics that pertain to Alerting
Authorities, Law Enforcement, the General Public, and a variety of information related to
the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System and its components
 The IPAWS program was also were featured on the International Association of
Emergency Managers’ audience, as well as the National Crime Prevention
Council’s audience.
 The most recent webinar, held on January 21, 2015, showcased
demonstrations of the Lexington-Fayette Urban Division of Emergency
Management and Fairfax County Office of Emergency Management on how to
test their alert origination software with the IPAWS Lab at JITC.
FEMA intends to continue these outreach efforts, and distribute information related to the
security of EAS, including CSRIC’s EAS security recommendations, as appropriate.
5.1.2 Industry Stakeholders & Constituencies
Below is a non-exhaustive list of industry organizations that could be instrumental in
supporting the Commission’s efforts to educate EAS Participants regarding
cybersecurity. Many of these groups have annual or periodic conventions, conferences
or meetings, regularly distribute news updates and emails to their members, and offer
other educational content. WG3 recommends that the Commission invite these and
similar organizations to extend its cybersecurity outreach efforts through targeted
guidance to their constituencies.
 American Cable Association (ACA)
 Association of Public Television Association (APTS)
 Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)
 CTIA – The Wireless Association
 Low power FM radio organizations
12CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
 National Alliance of State Broadcasting Associations (NASBA)
 National Association of Broadcasters (NAB)
 National Association of College Broadcasters (NACB)
 National Cable & Telecommunications Association (NCTA)
 National Federation of Community Broadcasters
 National Public Radio (NPR)
 NTCA – The Rural Broadcast Association
 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS)
 State Broadcasters Associations (various)
 Society of Broadcast Engineers (SBE)
 Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE)
5.2 Outreach Methods
WG3 recommends that the Commission develop a series of best practices based on the
recommendations in the WG3 Initial Report, and publicize these practices through a
webcast and other means. The FCC’s efforts could be supplemented by targeted
outreach from industry organizations to their constituencies through some of the
methods listed below. Where noted, outreach by specific groups are offered only as
examples of existing projects in this area.
Webcasts, webinars, teleconferences. Broadcast engineering trade groups such as
SBE and SCTE frequently offer educational and training webinars to their membership.
The completion of these webinars may be applied by members toward professional
certification and other goals, which serves to encourage members to participate.
Offering webinars in EAS security, or perhaps even an EAS security certification, is one
method of reaching engineers, increasing their awareness of EAS security issues and
best practices, and informing them of specific steps needed to protect the EAS
infrastructure at the facilities they oversee.
Trade Publications. Widely-read trade publications such as Radio World and
Broadcasting & Cable often welcome contributions on subjects relevant to their
readership. Contributions from Commission or industry experts in the field of EAS
security to such journals would greatly improve awareness of EAS security concerns
among EAS Participants.
Newsletters and Social media. NCTA and other groups routinely communicate with
their members through regularly scheduled newsletters as well as social media
websites, and also provide timely information on their websites. WG3 recommends that
the FCC invite organizations to highlight EAS security on these outlets; in particular,
groups should be encouraged to create a webpage devoted to EAS security and link to
that page from the group’s primary homepage. Groups may also provide links to
additional resources for relevant information, including a link to the appropriate page on
the Commission’s website.
13CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
Email blasts. Many industry associations periodically distribute email blasts designed to
remind or inform their constituencies of current “hot topics” or upcoming deadlines. EAS
security would be a suitable topic for such communications.
Conferences, conventions, policy forums. Industry groups hold conventions and
conferences on at least an annual basis at which panel discussions regarding EAS
security could be provided. For example, NAB is planning a session concerning
cybersecurity for broadcasters at its annual convention in April 2015, as well as another
session focused on the future of EAS, featuring FCC personnel. State Broadcasters
Associations also hold annual conferences during which EAS security could be
addressed.
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. The Commission should lead an annual program
during Cybersecurity Awareness Month that invites participation from industry
organizations to press the issue of EAS security among all categories of EAS
Participants.
14CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
6 Conclusions
Outreach pathways already in place and commonly used by both public and private
entities provide a suitable model for delivering EAS security content to EAS Participants.
The message needs to be tailored to the specific audience addressed by the outreach
method. EAS Security should be addressed in the FCC EAS Handbook.
Specifically, WG3 recommends that the Commission undertake an EAS security outreach
effort that includes the following components:
 FCC development of a user-friendly list of EAS cybersecurity best practices, of
general relevance to all EAS stakeholders.
 FCC development of additional lists of best practices that are tailored to specific
segments of the EAS ecosystem, e.g., small and rural radio stations, small and
rural cable systems, large television groups.
 Prominent display of all best practices on the FCC’s website, e.g., the Public Safety
& Homeland Security Bureau homepage, Media Bureau homepage, dedicated EAS
page.
 Establish a process for ensuring that relevant documents include references to
best practices.
 Amend the EAS Handbooks to reflect the cybersecurity best practices.
 Schedule and promote an interactive webcast for EAS participants.
 Coordinate with FEMA regarding consistent, periodic outreach concerning EAS
security.
 Invite industry associations and organizations to support and extend the
Commission’s outreach through member communications, such as webcasts,
newsletters, convention programs and sessions, policy forums, and social media.
 Commission staff volunteers for industry endeavors.
 Schedule a series of reminder events (webinar, advisories) during Cybersecurity
Awareness Month.
As discussed in the WG3 Initial Report, the FCC’s work regarding EAS security can
never be considered complete since the threats to EAS will continue to evolve.
Accordingly, the FCC should periodically assess the content and process of its EAS
security outreach and continually correct any deficiencies.
15
