PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric5/WG3_Security_Final_Report_0316.pdf:
March 2016 WORKING GROUP 3
EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM
Final Report - EAS Security Best Practices AdoptionCSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 5
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 6
2.2 Working Group #3 Team Members ................................................................................. 6
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 7
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 7
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 7
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 8
4 Background .............................................................................................................................. 8
5 Recommendations .................................................................................................................. 10
6 Conclusions ............................................................................................................................ 11
Appendix 1: Excerpt from 2015 CSRIC IV Working Group #3 Report ...................................... 12
[2]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Federal Communications Commission (Commission or FCC) established the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) “…to provide
recommendations...to help ensure, among other things, optimal security and reliability of
communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety." To achieve
that goal, CSRIC V established and chartered various "Working Groups" to examine the
various issues of concern in these areas.
Working Group 3 (WG3) was formed to make recommendations for the CSRIC’s consideration
in three major areas related to the continued improvement and development of the Emergency
Alert System (EAS) as a secure, effective alerting tool for the American public:
1. EAS Security;
2. the provision of EAS in languages other than English; and
3. the development of an operational handbook for individual broadcasters, cable service
providers and other EAS Participants
This Final Report was prepared by the CSRIC V WG3 Project Team on EAS security. In this
report, the WG3 makes recommendations concerning the implementation of the EAS
cybersecurity best practices adopted by the CSRIC IV. Subsequent to the CSRIC IV’s adoption
of these best practices, the Commission released a public notice in which it sought comment on
the extent to which these best practices had been adopted.1 On January 28, 2016, the
Commission initiated a rulemaking intended to address EAS security issues, among other
issues.2 The FCC has stated that any recommendations adopted by the CSRIC will be
incorporated into the record of the 2016 EAS NPRM.
The working group has been tasked with assessing any barriers to the adoption of the CSRIC
IV best practices, and make recommendations on incentives, both regulatory and non-
regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices. The working group was also
tasked with recommending methods by which other EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that
the best practices are being implemented.
The Project Team encountered several difficult challenges to completing the assigned tasks.
First, we note that, in addition to approving EAS security best practices, the CSRIC IV also
approved specific recommendations for Commission public outreach concerning those best
practices. In the opinion of the working group, the commission did not perform a sufficient
amount of outreach, and the EAS Security Public Notice unfortunately did not generate a
sufficient record regarding industry implementation of the CSRIC-recommended best practices.
Thus, the Project Team was unable to leverage any FCC information collection that could
further an assessment of “barriers to the adoption of EAS security best practices.” Moreover,
1
Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau Seeks Comment on Implementation of Emergency Alert System
Security Best Practices, Public Notice, DA 14-1628 (Nov. 7, 2014) (EAS Security Public Notice).
2 Amendment of Part 11 of the Commission’s Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert System, PS Docket No. 15-94,
Wireless Emergency Alerts, PS Docket No. 15-91, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FCC 16-5 (Jan. 28, 2016) (2016
EAS NPRM).
[3]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
the team was unable to identify any existing alternative resource for such information, and was
prohibited by the Commission’s administrative procedures for federal advisory groups from
conducting our own industry surveys, further constraining our efforts.
Second, subsequent to the chartering of CSRIC V, the Commission released the 2016 EAS
NPRM, which seeks comment on requiring an annual certification from EAS Participants that
demonstrates implementation of specific EAS security measures based on the CSRIC-
recommended EAS security best practices. Accordingly, this NPRM would seem to
substantially supersede our assigned task to “make recommendations on incentives, both
regulatory and non-regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices,” since a
federal certification requirement is likely all the incentive any EAS Participant would need.
Finally, the 2016 EAS NPRM also proposes specific procedures for the confidential treatment
of the annual certification forms mentioned above, the information and security measures
underlying the certification forms, as well as the potential sharing of such information with
other federal agencies. Therefore, the NPRM also seems to largely supersede our task to
recommend “methods by which other EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that the best
practices are being implemented,” because the FCC has already launched a comprehensive
inquiry into the collection and sharing of information on industry implementation of EAS
security best practices.
Nevertheless, the Project Team undertook to fulfill our assigned tasks with the information on
hand, regardless of these challenges, particularly, adoption of the 2016 EAS NPRM. Below we
offer the consensus view of Project team members concerning the confidentiality and use of
EAS security information, and the public availability of the CSRIC best practices
recommendations. Most importantly, WG3 strongly recommends that the Commission refrain
from any enforcement actions related to EAS security breaches so long as an EAS Participant
has implemented the CSRIC IV recommended EAS security best practices.
[4]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
2 Introduction
CSRIC V Working Group 3 was established to make recommendations for the CSRIC’s
consideration in three major areas related to the continued improvement and development of
the Emergency Alert System (EAS) as a secure, effective alerting tool for the American public:
(1) EAS Security; (2) the provision of EAS in languages other than English; and (3) the
development of an operational handbook for individual broadcasters, cable service providers
and other EAS Participants.
In order to tackle the relevant issues, a diverse team of subject matter experts was recruited to
participate. The following areas of expertise are represented within the group.
• Message Originators: FEMA; NWS; State & Local Emergency Managers; State EAS
Networks
• EAS Participants: Radio; TV; Cable TV; Satellite TV; Satellite Radio; Wireline
Video/IPTV
• EAS Equipment Manufacturers
• State Emergency Communications Committees
• EAS Experts and Consultants
CSRIC Working Group 3 is divided into three sub-groups:
 EAS Security – Recommend steps for assessing any barriers to the adoption of the
CSRIC IV best practices, make recommendations on incentives, both regulatory and
non-regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices, and recommend
methods by which other EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that the best practices are
being implemented.
 Multilingual EAS – The Working Group will recommend best practices for the
delivery of multilingual EAS and emergency information.
 EAS Operational Handbook – Update and modernize the EAS Handbook which states
in summary form the actions to be taken by personnel at EAS Participant facilities upon
receipt of an EAN, an EAT, tests, or State and Local Area alerts.
The Commission is concerned about the severity, frequency and nature of cybersecurity threats
to the EAS system, and the related implications for the readiness of EAS to alert and inform the
public about threats to safety of life and property, particularly to support the need of the
President to communicate with the public during times of emergency.
In this report, WG3 discusses recommendations for improving the security of EAS, expanding
industry implementation of cybersecurity risk mitigation measures, and the cautious collection
and sharing of information concerning EAS Participants’ implementation of such measures. The
actions that may follow will help to ensure the reliability of the EAS system as a critical
mechanism for warning and informing the American public during severe weather, AMBER
Alerts, natural disasters, and other emergency situations.
[5]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair(s): Chair(s): WG Chair(s): Chair(s): Chair(s): Chair(s): Chair(s): Chair(s):
WG # 1 # 2 WG # 3 WG # 4 WG # 5 WG # 6 WG # 7 WG # 8
Susan Francisco Steven Kent Bressie Rod Rasmussen Brian Bill Boni William
Sherwod Sanchez .Johnson Scarpelli Reidway
Catherine Creese Christopher Drew Morin
Jeff Cohen Farrokh Kelly Boyer Joel Thomas
Khatibi Williams Jennifer Manner Molinoff Anderson
Brian Allen
WG # 1: WG # 2: WG # 3: WG # 4: WG # 5: WG # 6: WG # 7: WG # 8:
Evolving Emergency Emergency Communications Cybersecurity Secure Cybersecurity Priority
911 Alerting Alert System Infrastructure Information Hardware & Workforce Services
Services Platforms Resiliency Sharing Software
Table 1 - Working Group Structure
2.2 Working Group #3 Team Members
Working Group #3 consists of the members listed below.
* Indicates member, EAS Security Best Practices Adoption Project Team
Name Company
Chair WG3 - Kelly Williams National Association of Broadcasters
Chair WG3 – Steven Johnson Johnson Telecom
Chair WG3 EAS Security Best Practices Adoption Cherry Creek Radio
Project Team – Gary Smith*
Adrienne Abbott-Gutierrez* Nevada EAS Chair, NV SECC
Mark Annas Riverside (CA) Fire Department
John Archer* SiriusXM
John E. Benedict* CenturyLink
Benjamin Brinitzer* iHeart Media/SBE
Robert Bunge* NOAA
Kay Chiodo Def Link Inc.
Greg Cooke* FCC
Edward Czarnecki* Monroe Electronics
Jim Du Bois Minnesota Broadcasters Association
Clay Freinwald Washington State University, WA SECC
Daniel Geist* Cox Communications, Inc.
Suzanne Goucher Maine Association of Broadcasters
Neil Graves SNR Systems
Ricardo Guerrero* AT&T
Ryan Hedgpeth DHS
Craig Hoden* NOAA NWS
Al Kenyon DHS FEMA
Jim Klas Wisconsin Educational Communications Board
Wayne Luplow LGE/Zenith Electronics
Lillian McDonald Twin Cities Public Television & Emergency,
[6]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
Community, Health and Outreach
Brian Murray Houston Area Urban Security Initiative’s
Emergency Public Information Work Group
Brian Oliger* Hubbard Radio
Jerry Parkins* Comcast
Harold Price* Sage Alerting Systems, Inc.
Austin Randazzo* FCC
Richard Rudman Broadcast Warning Working Group – CA SECC
Francisco Sanchez Harris County Office of Homeland Security &
Emergency Management
Bill Schully* DIRECTV
Andy Scott* National Cable & Telecommunications Association
Matthew Straeb* GSS Net
Mike Talbert Verizon
Gary Timm Wisconsin SECC
Leo Velazquez AT&T
Larry Walke* NAB
Herb White NOAA NWS (contract support)
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The working group has been tasked with assessing any barriers to the adoption of the CSRIC
IV best practices, and make recommendations on incentives, both regulatory and non-
regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices. The working group was also
tasked with recommending methods by which other EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that
the best practices are being implemented.
3.2 Scope
This document addresses the deliverables outlined in the CSRIC V charter for Working Group
#3. The working group endeavored to present a report that assesses any barriers to the adoption
of the CSRIC IV best practices, and make recommendations on incentives, both regulatory and
non-regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices. The working group also
sought to recommend methods by which other EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that the
best practices are being implemented.
The Project Team took the following stakeholders into consideration regarding the security of
EAS:
 EAS Participants
 Emergency Alert Originators
 EAS Device Manufacturers
 U.S. Government
The team has written this report taking into consideration budgetary constraints, Commission
resources, and challenges related to the confidentiality and sharing of cybersecurity related
information.
[7]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
The scope of our product was limited by several challenges outside of our control. First,
because the Commission’s EAS Security Public Notice did not generate an adequate record of
industry implementation of the CSRIC-recommended best practices, we were unable to rely on
any FCC information collection that could enable assessment of barriers to the adoption of EAS
security best practices. Nor could the team identify any sufficient alternative resources for such
information. Finally, pursuant to the Commission’s administrative procedures for federal
advisory groups, the team was not permitted to conduct our own industry survey to aggregate
information about the implementation of security measures. As a result, WG3 was unable to
compile an accurate assessment of industry’s implementation of EAS security best practices.
Second, the Commission’s adoption of the 2016 EAS NPRM diluted our mission by proposing
specific requirements designed to resolve all of the questions assigned by the Commission to
WG3. For example, the FCC has proposed an annual certification requirement in which EAS
Participants could demonstrate their implementation of specific EAS security measures based
on the CSRIC IV-recommended EAS security best practices. Accordingly, the NPRM
substantially supersedes our assigned task to “make recommendations on incentives, both
regulatory and non-regulatory for affected stakeholders to adopt the best practices,” because
avoiding penalty for violation of an FCC rule is sufficient incentive.
Finally, the 2016 EAS NPRM proposes specific procedures for the confidential treatment of the
annual certification forms mentioned above, the information and security measures underlying
the certification forms, and the potential sharing of such information with other federal
agencies. Therefore, the NPRM also negates our task to recommend “methods by which other
EAS stakeholders may gain assurance that the best practices are being implemented.”
In spite of the above limitations, however, the working group has used the expertise of its own
members to make recommendations.
3.3 Methodology
The Project Team used a collaborative, inclusive approach. Given the expertise of various team
members, it was important to provide an open forum through which participants could express
their opinions and help shape this report. These discussions largely took place during a series of
weekly conference calls moderated by the subcommittee chair, Gary Smith of Cherry Creek
Radio.
4 Background
For a comprehensive discussion of the background relevant to this inquiry, WG3 refers the
CSRIC to the 2016 EAS NPRM. At paragraphs 5 through 8, the Commission provides an
accurate depiction of the EAS system’s technical architecture. At paragraphs 97 through 107,
the Commission discusses its concerns regarding security of the EAS system, describes recent
EAS security incidents, and recaps earlier FCC efforts to improve EAS security. The
Commission expresses concerns that all of these circumstances “reveal an unacceptably high
risk of unauthorized EAS signal broadcasts and insufficient real-time Commission awareness
of, and visibility into the possible negative impacts of unauthorized alerts.” 2016 EAS NPRM
at para. 103.
[8]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
EAS is the primary national warning system that provides the President with the means to
address the nation during a national crisis. State and local officials also use EAS to issue
warning messages about imminent or ongoing hazards in specific regions. Three Federal
agencies share responsibility for administering EAS: the FCC, FEMA, and the National
Weather Service.
Functionally, EAS is a hierarchical alert message distribution system. Initiating an EAS
message, whether at the national, state, or local level, requires the message initiator to deliver
specially-encoded messages to a broadcast station-based transmission network that, in turn,
delivers the messages to individual broadcasters, cable operators, and other EAS Participants.
EAS Participants maintain special encoding and decoding equipment that can receive the
message for retransmission to other EAS Participants and to end users (broadcast listeners
and cable and other service subscribers).
The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is the Nation’s public alerting system designed to
improve public safety through the rapid dissemination of emergency messages to as many
people as possible over as many communications devices as possible. IPAWS builds
additional redundancy in EAS by establishing diverse dissemination paths including Internet
Protocol networks. IPAWS accepts standards-based alert and warning messages generated by
emergency managers using existing state, local, tribal, or territorial systems, or an IPAWS
web interface. These Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) formatted messages are then
forwarded to the FEMA IPAWS aggregator, which disseminates the message through all
distribution means.
The addition of CAP adds another gateway for unwanted intrusion into the system through the
public Internet. CAP requires all EAS decoders to be able to decode and relay CAP-formatted
EAS messages which are delivered over an Internet Protocol (IP) network from any of a
number of government and private CAP aggregators. Cyber-intrusions and attacks, whether by
viruses, malware, spyware, or other Information Technology (IT) security breaches – are on
the rise in in both public and private enterprise. EAS Participants now face additional
vulnerabilities as IP integration introduces a new gateway into the system.
One of the key implications of the adoption of interconnected technologies by EAS participants
is that the EAS system is now dependent on network delivered services. At that same time,
EAS participants have become more dependent on network delivered services. CSRIC IV
observed that CAP/EAS equipment is spanning these two domains - connecting to both internal
and external networks to monitor and disseminate alert and warning content through
increasingly complex operational environments, and endeavored to take a holistic approach in
looking at how EAS participants, alert originators and EAS device manufacturers can defend
and protect their organizations, and to help recover when things go wrong.
CSRIC V WG3 notes that best practices in general and the CSRIC IV Best Practices
specifically should be considered voluntary and are not intended to be mandated but should be
implemented in a manner that is appropriate to the needs, resources and capabilities of each
individual organization.
[9]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
As the Commission notes in the 2016 EAS NPRM, unauthorized EAS breaches over the past
few years have illustrated that operational security challenges range from those that could have
been prevented by very fundamental, common-sense measures, to those that may require
proactive efforts by the EAS Participant to better secure their IT enterprise.
5 Recommendations
CSRIC IV WG33 had made recommendations on how the FCC could increase its outreach of
the voluntary security Best Practices. Additional outreach and education is needed to insure a
healthy and secure EAS ecosystem. CSRIC V WG3 recommends that the FCC extend its
outreach efforts regarding Best Practices utilizing those methods. The information included in
the outreach should clearly set the expectation that EAS participants should implement
voluntary security practices appropriate to the EAS participant’s needs.4
Information about EAS Participants implementation of the security best practices should not be
a matter of public record and should be held confidential. Discussion of security issues, the
current level of protection, in public, with attribution, is an unacceptable level of exposure to
EAS Stakeholders. The FCC should work in conjunction with the Department of Homeland
Security and other federal agencies to establish processes for sharing information that is
considered by EAS Participants to be sensitive and non-public.
The CSRIC IV voluntary Best Practices need to be readily available and EAS participants must
know how to find them. CSRIC V WG3 recommends that the best practices be prominently
displayed on the FCC’s website, possibly in a new FCC document aimed at the station Chief
Operator or other individual responsible for EAS operations at each participant facility. This
document could be referenced by Alternative Broadcast Inspection Program (ABIP)5 inspectors
to discuss security best practices implementation during station inspections.
The CSRIC IV voluntary Best Practices are intended to be adaptable to the requirements of each
EAS stakeholder’s specific infrastructure. The Best Practices are part of a process that leads to
securing an evolving EAS ecosystem. Due to the nature of cybersecurity, its complexity, and
constant evolution, and the various unique requirements of each EAS stakeholder, CSRIC V
WG3 recommends that:
a. the FCC gives maximum flexibility to EAS participants with respect to the differences between
the Best Practices and the methods used to implement EAS security, especially where the methods
used exceed the techniques established in the Best Practices;
b. that any confidential information shared in response to voluntary or mandated FCC information
gathering not result in enforcement actions by the FCC; and,
3 see appendix 1, Excerpt from CSRIC IV WG3 EAS Security Committee Final Report on Outreach
4 CSRIC V WG3 notes that in January 2016, the FCC issued an NPRM in which it proposed new rules regarding
security.
5
The Alternative Broadcast Inspection Program is a cooperative program between the FCC Enforcement Bureau
and State Broadcast Associations under which stations that participate can receive a three-year exemption from
routine FCC inspections. Once the station passes the inspections, which is carried out by authorized inspector, the
state association issues a certificate which is also be provided to the FCC.
[10]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
c. in the event of a security breach an EAS participant is not subject to enforcement action,
particularly if the methods used to implement EAS security fulfill the intent of the techniques
outlined in the Best Practices.
6 Conclusions
Working Group #3 encountered several challenges concerning the assigned project, as described
above, including the intervening 2016 EAS NPRM, which largely superseded our task.
Nevertheless, the Project Team conducted weekly, fruitful discussions in good faith towards the
resolution of the delegated question with the information on hand at the time, and subject to
certain administrative procedures that limited our efforts and scope.
Our recommendations may be summarized as follows:
(1) Information about how EAS Participants have implemented the security best practices
should not be a matter of public record and should be held confidential. The Commission
should work with other federal agencies to establish processes for sharing information that is
considered by EAS Participants to be sensitive and non-public.
(2) The CSRIC IV EAS Security “Recommended Best Practices” need to be readily available
and EAS participants must know how to find them.
(3) Due to the complex and evolving nature of cybersecurity, a) the FCC should give maximum
flexibility to EAS participants with respect to the differences between the Best Practices and
the methods used to implement EAS security, especially where the methods used exceed the
techniques established in the Best Practices, b) any confidential information shared in
response to voluntary or mandated FCC information gathering not result in enforcement
actions by the FCC, and c) in the event of a security breach an EAS participant is not subject
to enforcement action, particularly if the methods used to implement EAS security fulfill the
intent of the techniques outlined in the Best Practices.
[11]CSRIC V Working Group 3
Final Report March 2016
Appendix 1: Excerpt from 2015 CSRIC IV Working Group #3
Final Report
Section 5: Recommendations
[12]CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
For these reasons, it is critical that consistent, tailored outreach methods be devised
and implemented to successfully penetrate the awareness of the full range of EAS
participants. WG3 considered this specific challenge in the development of the
recommendations set forth below. We considered the various industry groups that
represent EAS participants, equipment manufacturers that maintain communications
with their customers for purposes of system software upgrades and other product
opportunities, and government agencies like the FCC that license or authorize the
operations of all EAS participants.
5 Recommendations
WG3 recommends that the Commission develop and implement a schedule of multi-
faceted programs designed to educate the universe of EAS stakeholders regarding EAS
security, with a particular focus on outreach to smaller-sized and rural EAS participants.
An important component of these efforts centers on the content of such education. The
WG3 Initial Report contains a comprehensive list of cybersecurity best practices for the
various sectors of the EAS ecosystem, including EAS participants, EAS message
originators and other government bodies, and equipment manufacturers. However, that
document was designed for purposes of review by CSRIC members, most of whom have
some expertise in security or network issues. Accordingly, that report has a somewhat
complex format,2 sets forth only general categories of recommendations, and lacks any
detailed guidance on implementing the recommendations, thereby making it ill-suited for a
public advisory item.
For purposes of enhancing cybersecurity awareness among all EAS participants, WG3
recommends that the Commission consider developing a series of cybersecurity best
practices items. First, the Commission should prepare a user-friendly, manageable list of
recommended best practices for mitigating security risks to the EAS system of relevance
to the broad spectrum of EAS stakeholders.3 In addition, the Commission should consider
creating a set of best practices targeted to more narrow subsets of the EAS ecosystem,
non-enterprise based networked facilities such as smaller and rural radio EAS
participants, small cable systems, and large television groups, among others. This
approach should improve the Commission’s success in raising awareness of
cybersecurity risks among all EAS participants, and more importantly, widespread
implementation of measures designed to minimize those risks. Such a program would
also best enable state EAS committees, industry associations and other organizations to
support and extend the Commission’s outreach efforts, as discussed below.
2 The format of the WG3 Initial Report largely mirrors the Framework for Improving
Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity issued by the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) in February 2012 (available here).
3 WG3 notes that the appendix to the FCC’s Public Notice seeking comment on
implementation of best practices contained in the WG3 Initial Report could serve as a
model for such a document (available here).
10CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
The best practices should be prominently displayed and readily accessible on the FCC’s
website, and repeatedly flagged in relevant Commission documents and other venues.
Below we offer a series of specific proposals for educating EAS participants on
cybersecurity risks and mitigation measures.
5.1 Outreach Pathways
5.1.1 Government
5.1.1.1 FCC
FCC EAS Handbook. The EAS Operating Handbook summarizes the actions to be
taken by personnel at EAS Participants’ facilities upon receipt of an Emergency Alert
Notification (EAN) or State and Local Area alert. The Handbook is issued by the FCC,
and a copy of the Handbook must be located at normal duty positions or EAS equipment
locations when an operator is required to be on duty and be immediately available to
staff responsible for authenticating messages and initiating actions. 47 C.F.R. § 11.15.
The FCC issues several Handbooks, tailored for different categories of users: (1) TV; (2)
AM, FM and digital audio; (3) cable systems; (4) satellite; and (5) wireline video
providers.
Given the duty to maintain the EAS Handbook on site, and the fact that it is particularized
to various categories of EAS Participants, the handbook is an ideal resource for
information on cybersecurity. WG3 thus recommends that the Commission modify each
EAS Handbook to include recommended best practices for reducing cybersecurity risks,
relevant to each group of EAS participants.
FCC Webinars & Webcasts. The Commission periodically conducts online webinars
and webcasts on various policy issues, including security-related topics, such as Public
Safety Answering Point architecture, text-to-911, and 911 certification. WG3
recommends that the Commission hold an interactive webcast aimed at educating EAS
participants regarding cybersecurity. Such an event should be held in the near future
following the close of CSRIC IV -- no later than during October in connection with
National Cybersecurity Awareness month -- and thereafter annually in October, at a
minimum.
Public Advisories and Notices. WG3 recommends that the Commission issue a Public
Advisory to all EAS Participants reminding them of the digital vulnerabilities of EAS
systems and equipment, and recommending a list of best practices for addressing those
vulnerabilities. Such recommendations should also be noted in other EAS-related
documents, including docketed proceedings and FCC staff speeches and remarks.
11CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
5.1.1.2 FEMA
FEMA’s IPAWS Program Office has conducted several webinar series that have covered
a number of relevant topics:
Alert Origination Service Provider Series.
This series showcased products from vendors that have a Memorandum of Agreement
with IPAWS to demonstrate connectivity and validation of alerts sent to the IPAWS Lab
at the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC) in Maryland (e.g., WEA, EAS, NWEM)
and user interfaces with the consumer (e.g., geotargeting, selection criteria).
Unique Alert Services.
This event showcased products from vendors that are designed to monitor the IPAWS
All-Hazards Information Feed (IPAWS Public Feed) and redistribute them through
various channels (e.g., internet, subscriptions, digital signs).
Alerting Best Practices Webinar Series.
IPAWS is currently offering webinars of a wide range of topics that pertain to Alerting
Authorities, Law Enforcement, the General Public, and a variety of information related to
the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System and its components
 The IPAWS program was also were featured on the International Association of
Emergency Managers’ audience, as well as the National Crime Prevention
Council’s audience.
 The most recent webinar, held on January 21, 2015, showcased
demonstrations of the Lexington-Fayette Urban Division of Emergency
Management and Fairfax County Office of Emergency Management on how to
test their alert origination software with the IPAWS Lab at JITC.
FEMA intends to continue these outreach efforts, and distribute information related to the
security of EAS, including CSRIC’s EAS security recommendations, as appropriate.
5.1.2 Industry Stakeholders & Constituencies
Below is a non-exhaustive list of industry organizations that could be instrumental in
supporting the Commission’s efforts to educate EAS Participants regarding
cybersecurity. Many of these groups have annual or periodic conventions, conferences
or meetings, regularly distribute news updates and emails to their members, and offer
other educational content. WG3 recommends that the Commission invite these and
similar organizations to extend its cybersecurity outreach efforts through targeted
guidance to their constituencies.
 American Cable Association (ACA)
 Association of Public Television Association (APTS)
 Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)
 CTIA – The Wireless Association
 Low power FM radio organizations
12CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
 National Alliance of State Broadcasting Associations (NASBA)
 National Association of Broadcasters (NAB)
 National Association of College Broadcasters (NACB)
 National Cable & Telecommunications Association (NCTA)
 National Federation of Community Broadcasters
 National Public Radio (NPR)
 NTCA – The Rural Broadcast Association
 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS)
 State Broadcasters Associations (various)
 Society of Broadcast Engineers (SBE)
 Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE)
5.2 Outreach Methods
WG3 recommends that the Commission develop a series of best practices based on the
recommendations in the WG3 Initial Report, and publicize these practices through a
webcast and other means. The FCC’s efforts could be supplemented by targeted
outreach from industry organizations to their constituencies through some of the
methods listed below. Where noted, outreach by specific groups are offered only as
examples of existing projects in this area.
Webcasts, webinars, teleconferences. Broadcast engineering trade groups such as
SBE and SCTE frequently offer educational and training webinars to their membership.
The completion of these webinars may be applied by members toward professional
certification and other goals, which serves to encourage members to participate.
Offering webinars in EAS security, or perhaps even an EAS security certification, is one
method of reaching engineers, increasing their awareness of EAS security issues and
best practices, and informing them of specific steps needed to protect the EAS
infrastructure at the facilities they oversee.
Trade Publications. Widely-read trade publications such as Radio World and
Broadcasting & Cable often welcome contributions on subjects relevant to their
readership. Contributions from Commission or industry experts in the field of EAS
security to such journals would greatly improve awareness of EAS security concerns
among EAS Participants.
Newsletters and Social media. NCTA and other groups routinely communicate with
their members through regularly scheduled newsletters as well as social media
websites, and also provide timely information on their websites. WG3 recommends that
the FCC invite organizations to highlight EAS security on these outlets; in particular,
groups should be encouraged to create a webpage devoted to EAS security and link to
that page from the group’s primary homepage. Groups may also provide links to
additional resources for relevant information, including a link to the appropriate page on
the Commission’s website.
13CSRIC WG3 Final Report
March 2015
Email blasts. Many industry associations periodically distribute email blasts designed to
remind or inform their constituencies of current “hot topics” or upcoming deadlines. EAS
security would be a suitable topic for such communications.
Conferences, conventions, policy forums. Industry groups hold conventions and
conferences on at least an annual basis at which panel discussions regarding EAS
security could be provided. For example, NAB is planning a session concerning
cybersecurity for broadcasters at its annual convention in April 2015, as well as another
session focused on the future of EAS, featuring FCC personnel. State Broadcasters
Associations also hold annual conferences during which EAS security could be
addressed.
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. The Commission should lead an annual program
during Cybersecurity Awareness Month that invites participation from industry
organizations to press the issue of EAS security among all categories of EAS
Participants.
14
