PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric5/WG6_FINAL_%20wAppendix_0316.pdf:
Communications Security, Reliability and
Interoperabi lity Council
SECURE HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE: SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
WORKING GROUP 6 – Final Report:
Best Practices Recommendations for Hardware and Software Critical
to the Security of the Core Communications Network
March 2016The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ..................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ........................................................................................................ 3
2 Introduction ........................................................................................................................... 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 5
2.2 Working Group 6 Team Members ................................................................................... 6
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ..................................................................................... 7
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 7
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 8
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 9
4 Findings and Recommendations ......................................................................................... 10
4.1 Findings .......................................................................................................................... 10
4.2 Recommendations .......................................................................................................... 17
5 Conclusions ......................................................................................................................... 18
6 Acknowledgments............................................................................................................... 18
7 Appendix 1 – Security-by-Design Efforts Reference List .................................................. 18
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
This CSRIC V Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software – Security-by-Design
(Working Group 6) was formed and tasked with developing voluntary recommendations and
best practices to enhance the security of hardware and software in the core public
communications network. In a separate report due in September of 2016, the Working Group
will provide voluntary mechanisms to demonstrate success of these best practices.
As the CSRIC has moved into its current iteration, this collaborative Federal Advisory
Committee has proven itself a trustworthy public-private partnership forum able to evolve to
address emerging public safety issues faced by the communications sector. As a recent example,
in March 2015, CSRIC IV Working Group 4 completed the task of developing voluntary
mechanisms that gave the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the public assurance
that communications providers are taking the necessary measures to manage cybersecurity risks
across the enterprise; as well as provided implementation guidance to help communications
providers use and adapt the voluntary National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST)
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).
Communications network organizations’ efforts associated with security-by-design are
foundational to secure communications and are also part of the larger ecosystem that faces
increasing security threats. To accomplish its goal for this deliverable, Working Group 6
initiated an open, accessible and consensus-based forum to discuss security-by-design practices.
Working Group 6’s membership consisted of a broad array of stakeholders, both public and
private, that own, operate, service, or are otherwise impacted by the core network.
After determining the objective, scope, and methodology for its work, Working Group 6 found
that a diverse and vibrant ecosystem of consensus-driven voluntary standards bodies and
consortia exist that are already engaged in efforts to address security-by-design (many of which
are referenced in the NIST CSF). Working Group 6 believes that public-private coordination and
collaboration, particularly through such standards bodies and consortia, is critical to advancing
security-by-design.
The NIST CSF is a flexible, scalable framework that provides tools the communications sector
can use to assess security-by-design, utilizing a risk management approach. Hence, Working
Group 6 leveraged the NIST CSF to provide recommendations that can be adopted by
communications sector stakeholders to improve security-by-design practices. This report is
intended to address best practices for service providers seeking to manage cybersecurity risks
associated with technology obtained from third party vendors, suppliers, and/or integrators for
use in their core networks.
As a result of this process, Working Group 6 formulated the following recommendations:
 Communications sector members should use the best practices detailed in this report as a
reference for working with vendors and suppliers to reduce cybersecurity risk within the
core network. Communications sector stakeholders that provide hardware and software
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
products and services for the core network should reference the best practices to help
ensure that security-by-design principles are collaboratively addressed.
 The voluntary approach embodied by the NIST CSF and available technical approaches
to securing the core network should be leveraged to drive future development of
security-by-design standards and best practices. This approach will enable network
stakeholders to keep pace with the dynamic nature of threats to the core network.
 Public-private coordination and collaboration in advancing security-by-design should be
encouraged and enabled in order to avoid inconsistencies in approaches to security-by-
design and to ensure increased intelligence sharing. Information sharing about supplier
risk between government and industry is recommended as well.
Working Group 6’s completion of this report and recommendations is an important step forward
in securing the core network. However, organizations must continue to advance their security-
by-design efforts to ensure that they are able to respond to the ever-changing threat landscape.
Working Group 6 will continue its work on a future report identifying voluntary mechanisms
that demonstrate the success of the recommendations and best practices in this report.
2 Introduction
Today’s communications services and products face increasing security threats, which means
service providers and their hardware and software suppliers must evolve risk management
practices in order to better protect the communications critical infrastructure. To accomplish
this, network owners and operators, working collaboratively with equipment providers, have
worked to develop a common set of guiding security principles to foster ‘security-by-design’ –
the concept of building security concepts into hardware and software from the developmental
stages to the “end of life.”
In recent years, both public and private stakeholders have worked together to design practical
reference models that would be useful for increasing resiliency during attacks on the core
network. The 2013 Presidential Executive Order (EO) 13636, “Improving Cybersecurity Critical
Infrastructure,”1 and the subsequent 2014 release of the NIST CSF Version 1.0,2 have provided
global leadership in emphasizing cybersecurity risk management as the foundation for a
voluntary, risk‐based model for protecting our nation’s critical infrastructure and enabling
organizations to prioritize and implement solutions based on informed, enterprise‐tailored,
business‐driven considerations. Such an approach has widely been promoted by the U.S.
government and industry alike as a pragmatic way to improve network security. The
Communications, Security, Reliability & Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV’s Working Group
1
Executive Order No. 13636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (Feb. 12, 2014), available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/02/12/executive-order-improving-critical-infrastructure-
cybersecurity.
2
NIST, Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, Version 1.0 (Feb. 12, 2014), available at
http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity-framework-021214-final.pdf.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
4: Cybersecurity Risk Management and Best Practices3Report, released in March of 2015,
provided implementation guidance to help communications providers adapt the voluntary NIST
CSF for their specific use, demonstrating not only the flexibility and scalability of the
Framework, but the commitment of the communications industry at large to proactively enhance
the sector’s security posture.
This CSRIC V Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software – Security-by-Design has
been formed and tasked with developing voluntary recommendations and best practices to
enhance the security of hardware and software used in communications critical infrastructure. In
addition, in a separate report due in September of 2016, the Working Group will provide
voluntary mechanisms to demonstrate success of these best practices. Building on the strong
foundation laid by EO 13636, the NIST CSF, and CSRIC IV Working Group 4, this report
demonstrates the value of a voluntary and standards-based risk management approach in
constantly improving the security of the communications network.
Using the NIST CSF as a baseline, this report contains recommendations and best practices for
communications providers that allow for the evaluation and validation of existing security-by-
design processes. The recommendations are intended for use by any organization – regardless of
size – that must address the integrity of the core network. In developing this report, the
stakeholders provided the perspective of owners and operators of the core network; as well as
that of suppliers and vendors who prioritize the incorporation of security principles into the life
cycle of their products and services.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
CSRIC V: Working Group Structure
Susan Francisco Steven Kent Bressie Jennifer Rod Brian Bill Boni William
Sherwood Sanchez Johnson Manner Rasmussen Scarpelli Reidway Jr.
Catherine Drew Morin
Jeff Cohen Farrokh Kelly Creese Chris Boyer Joel Thomas
Khatibi Williams Molinoff Anderson
Brian Allen
(Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs) (Chair) (Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs) (Co-Chairs)
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Group 7: Group 8:
Evolving 911 Emergency Emergency Communications Communications Cybersecurity Secure Cybersecurit Priority
Services Alerting Alert System Infrastructure Infrastructure Information Hardware y Workforce Services
Resiliency Resiliency
Platforms Sharing and Software
– Security-
Sub-Group Sub-Group
by-Design
A: B: Network
Submarine Timing
Cable Single
Resiliency Source Risk
Reduction
3
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV, Final Report, Working Group 4:
Cybersecurity Risk Management and Best Practices, March 2015 (available at:
https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG4_Final_Report_031815.pdf) (visited February 24,
2016) (CSRIC IV Working Group 4 Report).
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
Table 1 - Working Group Structure
2.2 Working Group 6 Team Members
Working Group 6 consists of the members listed below:
First
Last Name Organization
Name
Joel Molinoff CBS (Working Group 6 Co-Chair)
ACT | The App Association (Working
Brian Scarpelli
Group 6 Co-Chair)
Steven McKinnon Federal Communications Commission
Emily Talaga (Working Group 6 Liaisons)
Andy Ellis
Akamai
Michael Stone
Rao Vasireddy Alcatel-Lucent (TIA)
Chris Boyer AT&T
Brian Daly ATIS (AT&T)
Mike Geller (Cisco)
Jamie Brown CA Technologies
Steve Goeringer Cable Labs
Rob Covolo
CenturyLink
Stacy Hartman
Kevin Beaudry Charter
Mike Geller
Meyers-
Lisa Cisco
McDonald
Eric Wenger
College of Healthcare Information
Leslie Krigstein
Management Executives
Michael O’Reirdan
Glen Pirrotta Comcast Cable
Kallol Ray
Jon Amis Dell
Department of Homeland Security
Gabriel Martinez National Protection and Programs
Directorate
Alex Gerdenitsch
EchoStar
Jennifer Manner
Bill Olson General Services Administration
Peter Allor IBM
Ethan Lucarelli Wiley Rein (Iridium)
James Bean Juniper Networks
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
First
Last Name Organization
Name
Mercatus Center at George Mason
Eli Dourado
University
Angela McKay Microsoft
National Cable and
Matt Tooley
Telecommunications Association
Jon Boyens NIST
Bryanna Evans
Andrew McGee Nokia
Rao Vasireddy
Kazu Gomi
Kimura Masato NTT America
Shinichi Yokohama
Franck Journoud Oracle
Richard Perlotto Shadow Server
Patrick Koethe Sprint
Jeff Greene Symantec
Chris Roosenraad
Time Warner Cable
Joe Viens
Darren Kress
T-Mobile
Michelle Rosenthal
Robert Mayer
USTelecom Association
Tom Soroka
Nadya Bartol Utilities Telecom Council
Al Bolivar
Verisign
Tomofumi Okubo
Heath McGinnis Verizon
Virginia Information Technologies
Spears-
Dorothy Agency and National Association of
Dean
State 911 Administrators
Peter Ruffo ZTE USA
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
CSRIC V’s Working Group 6 was tasked with providing recommendations to help ensure the
security of the supply chain for critical communications infrastructure. The supply chain consists
of several distinct segments: design and development, distribution, and maintenance- each of
which has its own risks and vulnerabilities. The Working Group determined the most efficient
way to address these concerns is in the form of voluntary recommendations and best practices
designed to enhance the security of hardware and software in the core public communications
network.
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
In addition, Working Group 6 has been tasked with developing a means to assure the FCC and
the public that the identified recommended security capabilities are being implemented by
network equipment vendors. To provide this assurance, in a future report, this Working Group
will identify voluntary mechanisms that demonstrate the success of these recommendations and
best practices.
3.2 Scope
The capabilities recommended by this Working Group make use of security-by-design principles
and processes that enable network equipment manufacturers to make the core communications
network more secure, resilient, and defendable from attacks. For the purposes of this exercise,
the Working Group relied on the National Sector Risk Assessment’s (NSRA’s) definition of
“core network,” which was also relied upon in the CSRIC IV Working Group 4 report. The
Working Group 4 report provides the following guidance regarding the core network:
“The core network transports a high volume of aggregated traffic over large
distances; typically via fiber or satellite and interconnects with access networks
across the country. The core network is global, connecting all continents except
Antarctica using submarine fiber optic cable systems and land‐based fiber and
copper facility networks. The converged core network uses various technologies
for the physical (layer 1) and transport layers (layer 2) for the transport of the
services.
“Multiple service providers operating distinct core networks traversing the entire
country provide the communications core infrastructure. These networks are
primarily composed of wireline networks. The voice, video, and data services
typically require some kind of routing translation query such as a host name look
up or toll‐free number query and are provided as part of operating the core
network. In addition, the Network Operations Center (NOC), customer care
centers, and data centers for all the access networks reside on the core network.
“The access networks connect the end users to the core network. Traffic may
originate and terminate with an access network without connecting to the core
network.”4
Further, the NSRA depicts the core network visually as follows:5
4
CSRIC Working Group 4 report at pgs. 68-70.
5
http://info.publicintelligence.net/commsector2012.pdf
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
Figure 1:2012 NSRA Depiction of the Communications Sector Architecture Model
This document is intended to address best practices for service providers seeking to manage
cybersecurity risks associated with technology obtained from third party vendors, suppliers, and
or integrators for use in their core networks.
3.3 Methodology
In order to provide the recommended capabilities to better ensure the security of the supply
chain for critical communications infrastructure, a three-phased approach was undertaken to
complete the above deliverables:
 Phase 1: Define Objectives, Scope, and Methodology
 Phase 2: Analysis and Determination of Findings
 Phase 3: Recommendations and Conclusions
The Working Group used a combination of bi-monthly conference calls and in-person meetings
to produce the above deliverables.
The Working Group 6 members agreed to the following framing concepts:
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
 The deliverable should incorporate both perspectives related to service providers who
require secure practices by their vendors, and the vendors who should incorporate secure
development life cycle practices to manage risk.
 The deliverable should be at the principle level, and should be technology- and origin-
neutral, so that the recommendations can remain relevant as technologies evolve (e.g.,
the recommendations should be useful for traditional and software-defined networks).
 The principles in this deliverable should draw from the existing body of standards and
best practices developed for security-by-design.
With these framing concepts in mind, Working Group 6 reviewed current industry security-by-
design standards/best practices. Informed by this exercise, an assessment of these standards/best
practices was then undertaken using the NIST CSF to determine key security-by-design
practices, from both the service provider and vendor perspectives. Members of Working Group
6 then evaluated the NIST CSF in the context of companies’ vendor security management
programs and best practices. The result was a compendium of macro, process level best practices
for core network owners and operators to use as they evaluate and deploy hardware and software
products.
4 Findings and Recommendations
4.1 Findings
As noted above, Working Group 6 conducted a review of standards bodies and consortia
published materials related to managing cybersecurity risk, as well as individual company
approaches to security-by-design. Through its analysis the Working Group determined the
following:
 A rich body of information exists to help companies evaluate and manage cybersecurity
risk, and the development of security-by-design principles. The communications sector
should leverage these proven, industry-accepted reference materials and existing
standards/best practice recommendations. A non-exclusive list of these existing efforts
is included in this report as Appendix 1.
 Given the diverse type and functions of vendors and suppliers serving core network
providers, any risk management recommendations should be at a macro level and
process-based, so as to allow for their extensibility and utility across technologies and
services.
 Through its analysis, the Working Group found that the NIST CSF presented the
strongest foundation for best practices. The following table comprises the Working
Group’s assessment of measures that a communications sector member should utilize to
review security-by-design protections with vendors and suppliers. The items discussed
are not intended to be a checklist that a sector member must build into supplier contracts.
Rather, the best practices are intended to be set of prioritized voluntary controls that
communications providers may use as a reference in working with vendors and suppliers
to mitigate supply chain cybersecurity risk. It should be noted that depending upon the
supplier and the specific functions being provided, these measures should not be viewed
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
as appropriate in all instances. Moreover, the NIST CSF may be updated to more
specifically address hardware assurance and other supply chain-related cybersecurity
matters; thus, while this list provides recommended areas of focus, organizations may
want to consult the NIST CSF as it is updated over time.
 It is important for service providers to establish upfront which party will be responsible
for managing risks associated with the operation of the technology. The answer may vary
depending upon whether the technology is delivered as a physical product or as a
subscription-based service. In a traditional product sales model, vendors could
reasonably be expected to employ a secure development lifecycle that would include
mechanisms for communicating information about mitigations or patches to known
vulnerabilities. However, vendors would not typically be positioned to operate the
technology --or to directly manage risks associated with its operation. By contrast, where
service providers have contracted for a vendor-managed service, the agreement may very
well require vendors or other operators of the service to assume compliance obligations
for managing security risks on an ongoing basis.
The table below summarizes the recommended best practices for communications sector
members to use to assess and manage supply chain cybersecurity risk.
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Governance, Risk Assessment and Risk
Management. Ensure that suppliers have an
organizational security policy that governs
design, development, and production of the
products and services. Examples include:
 Following policies, procedures, and
processes to manage and monitor the
organization’s cybersecurity risks to
ensure that suppliers understand the
cybersecurity risk to both their
operations and to their customers;
 Following governance and risk
management policies;
ID.GV-1, ID.GV-4,
 Identifying vulnerabilities, threats and
IDENTIFY ID.RA-1, ID-RA.3,
the likelihoods and impacts to
ID.RA-5, ID.RA-6.
determine risk;
ID.GV, ID.RA PR.IP-1, 2,3,4,6,9,
 Ensuring that a baseline configuration
12
of information systems is created;
 Defining a life cycle to manage
systems;
 Putting in place change control
processes;
 Conducting, maintaining and
periodically testing the backup of
information;
 Destroying data according to policy;
 Putting in place and managing incident
response and recovery plans and
developing and implementing a
vulnerability management plan.
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Access Controls. Ensure that suppliers limit
access to (1) assets and associated facilities
used to design, develop, and produce applicable
solutions, and (2) the products and services, to
authorized users, processes and devices and
limit access to only authorized activities and
transactions.
Steps may include:
 Suppliers establishing user account
credentials and account management
processes,
PROTECT  Establishing password requirements; PR.AC-1, PR.AC-2,
 Ensuring that identities and credentials PR.AC-3, PR.AC-4,
PR.AC are managed for authorized devices and PR.AC-5
users;
 Managing and protecting physical
access to assets;
 Managing remote access ;
 Managing access permissions to
systems impacting sector member
information assets incorporating the
principles of least privileged and
separation of duties; and
 Protecting network integrity
incorporating network segregation
where appropriate.
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Data Security. Ensure that information and
records (data) relevant to products and services
residing on applicable solutions are managed to
protect and ensure the confidentiality, integrity
and availability of information.
This may include steps by supplier to ensure
that data-at-rest and data-in-transit are
protected, including;
 Using strong encryption,
 Implementing protections to prevent
data leaks, and
PROTECT PR.DS-1, PR.DS-2,
 Using integrity checking mechanisms to
PR.DS-5, PR.DS-6,
verify software, firmware and
PR.DS PR.DS-7
information integrity.
Additional steps may involve:
 Isolating relevant products and services
from other customer's or suppliers own
products and services,
 Having documented procedures for
secure backup, recovery and
destruction of sector member’s
information, and
 Limiting access to such information to
only authorized personnel.
Maintenance. Ensure that suppliers have in
place mechanisms to ensure:
 Performing maintenance and repair of
PROTECT relevant products and services in a
timely manner, and PR.MA-1,2
PR.MA  Approving, logging and performing
remote maintenance of products and
services in a manner that prevents
unauthorized access.
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Protective Technology. Ensure that supplier’s
information resources that may impact
applicable products and services are sufficiently
hardened which may involve disabling unused
networking or other computing functionality.
Supplier may also ensure that technical security
solutions are managed to ensure the security
and resilience of supplier's information
resources relevant to products and services
including that:
 Controlling access to systems and
PROTECT assets, incorporating the principle of
least functionality, PR.PT-1, 2,3,4
PR.PT  Protecting communications and control
networks,
 Protecting removable media and
restricting its use according to policy,
and
 Maintaining audit and log records.
When providing Internet accessible services to
sector members, supplier should ensure that
adequate Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
protections are in place and that supplier
requires strong authentication for any remote
access to such systems.
Anomalies and Event Detection. Ensure that:
 Supplier has tools in place to detect
anomalies and events relevant to
products and services, and
DETECT  Such events are analyzed to understand
attack targets and methods. DE.AE-2, 4
DE.AE
The impact of events or anomalies should be
determined and supplier should notify sector
members according to a documented
procedure.
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Security Continuous Monitoring. Ensure that
supplier information system and assets relevant
to products and services are monitored to
identify cybersecurity events and verify the
effectiveness of cybersecurity measures.
This may include that:
 Baselining and monitoring the network
to detect potential cybersecurity events,
DETECT  Monitoring the physical environment to
detect potential cybersecurity events,
DE.CM  Detecting malicious code, DE.CM-1,2,4,5,7
 Detecting authorized mobile code,
 Performing vulnerability scans on a
routine basis, and
 Monitoring for unauthorized personnel,
connections, devices and software.
Supplier may also actively monitor industry
resources for timely notification of applicable
security alerts related to sector member's
information resources, as defined via contract,
to take prompt action.
Detection Processes. Ensure that suppliers
have in place detection processes and
procedures for identifying security events that
may impact products and services; for example
intrusion detection or intrusion detection and
prevention systems, that monitors traffic
interacting with sector member's information
resources, that are maintained to ensure timely
DETECT
awareness of anomalous events.
DE.DP-4
DE.DP
This may include event detection and Supplier
should ensure they have a documented
procedure to be followed in the event of an
actual or suspected attack and promptly notify
sector member whenever there is a successful
attack upon, intrusion upon, unauthorized
access to, loss to or other breach of sector
member's information resources.
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
SECURITY-BY-DESIGN
SAMPLE
FUNCTION &
BEST PRACTICE SUBCATEGORIES
CATEGORIES
FROM NIST CSF
Response Planning and Communications
Ensure that supplier has in place a documented
process to remediate security vulnerabilities
RESPOND
relevant to products and services to detected
cybersecurity events and that response activities RS.RP-1, RS.CO-4
RS.RP
are coordinated with customers and external
RS.CO
stakeholders (as appropriate), which may
include support from law enforcement or other
agencies.
Analysis and Mitigation. Ensure that supplier
is conducting analysis to ensure adequate
response and support recovery activities
DETECT
relevant to products and services including
RS.AN-1,2,3
determining the impact of the incident,
RS.AN RS.MI-1,2
forensics, and notifications as appropriate and
RS.MI
that activities are performed to prevent
expansion of an event, mitigate its effects, and
eradicate the incident or contain its impact.
Recovery Planning. Ensure that suppliers have
in place recovery processes and procedures
RECOVER
covering the products and services that can be
RC.RP-1
executed and maintained to ensure the timely
RC.RP
restoration of relevant systems and assets
affected by cybersecurity events.
4.2 Recommendations
Working Group 6 recommends the following:
 Communications sector members should use the best practices detailed in this report as a
reference for working with vendors and suppliers to reduce cybersecurity risk within the
core network. Communications sector stakeholders that provide hardware and software
products and services for the core network should reference the best practices to help
ensure security-by-design principles are collaboratively addressed.
 To enable network stakeholders to keep pace with the dynamic nature of threats to the
core network, the voluntary approach embodied by the NIST CSF and available technical
approaches to securing the core network should be leveraged to drive future development
of security-by-design standards and best practices.
 Public-private coordination and collaboration in advancing security-by-design should be
encouraged and enabled in order to avoid inconsistencies in approaches to security-by-
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
design. This also ensures increased intelligence sharing. Information sharing about
supplier risk between government and industry is recommended as well.
5 Conclusions
Communication network organizations that follow security-by-design principles are
foundational to secure communications and are also part of a larger ecosystem that faces
increasing security threats. A diversity of consensus-driven voluntary standardization bodies and
consortia are engaged in efforts to address security-by-design today and are referenced in the
NIST CSF. Further, public-private coordination and collaboration in advancing security-by-
design will help avoid inconsistencies in approaches to security-by-design. The introduction of
the NIST CSF represents a major breakthrough in the ability to communicate cybersecurity risk
management principles and processes and can be effectively employed by the communications
sector and applied to other critical infrastructure sectors.
Communications sector stakeholders that provide hardware and software products and services
for the core network are encouraged to utilize this report and the NIST CSF to improve their
security-by-design practices, which may contribute to a more secure core network. The
communications sector’s public and private members have demonstrated their commitment to
improving the use and enhancement of security-by-design practices. While this report is an
important step forward in this space, core network stakeholders will need to continue to refine
and expand the use of security-by-design practices.
6 Acknowledgments
Working Group 6 would like to acknowledge the significant contributions of each of its
members. Without their expertise, participation, analysis, and contributions throughout the
process, the report findings, conclusions, and recommendations contained herein would not have
been possible. Member insight, focus, and outreach across the communications sector, and
leadership throughout the Working Group 6 process is evidenced by the quality of this report’s
analysis, recommendations, and conclusions. In particular, Working Group 6 would like to thank
Nadya Bartol, Chris Boyer, Chris Roosenraad, and Matt Tooley for their expertise and
dedication in guiding this Working Group through using the NIST CSF to formulate the
security-by-design findings and recommendations in this report.
Working Group 6 would also like to acknowledge and thank our FCC liaisons Steven McKinnon
and Emily Talaga, for their support and contributions, as well as their thoughtful advice, and
encouragement throughout the process.
Working Group 6 would also like to acknowledge the skill and dedication of Stacy Hartman for
her leadership and attention to detail in the drafting of the final report, without which the Final
Report would not have been possible.
Finally, Working Group 6 would like to acknowledge and thank co‐chairs Joel Molinoff and
Brian Scarpelli for their helpful insight on security-by-design practices, as well as their efforts to
include a broad array of stakeholders in the Working Group 6 process as well as their work to
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V Working Group 6
Final Report March 2016
build consensus amongst the Working Group members.
7 Appendix 1 – Security-by-Design Efforts Reference List
Refer to attachment: FCC CSRIC WG6 Reference List
19CSRIC Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software - Security-by-Design
Reference List
Short Title Title Year of Issuance Abstract Link
In order to help energy sector asset owners and operators communicate
expectations and requirements in a clear and repeatable manner, the Energy
http://energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2014/04/f15/Cybers
Cybersecurity Procurement Language Sector Control Systems Working Group (ESCSWG) built upon DHS (2009) to
2014 ecProcurementLanguage-
for Energy Delivery Systems develop the baseline cybersecurity procurement language provided in this
EnergyDeliverySystems_040714_fin.pdf
document. This language is tailored to the specific needs of the energy sector in
order to provide a starting point for energy sector cybersecurity procurements.
DHS 'Build Security In' - Improve
The Top 25 CWEs represent the most significant exploitable software constructs
Security and Software Assurance:
that have made software so vulnerable. Addressing these will go a long way in https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/
Tackle the CWE Top 25 Most
securing software, both in development and in operation.
Dangerous Software Errors
This publication addresses the engineering-driven actions necessary for
developing a more defensible and survivable information technology (IT)
infrastructure—including the component products, systems, and services that
compose the infrastructure. It starts with and builds upon a set of well-
established International Standards for systems and software engineering
DRAFT Systems Security Engineering: published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), the
NIST SP 800- http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-
An Integrated Approach to Building International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), and the Institute of Electrical
160 160/sp800_160_draft.pdf
Trustworthy Resilient Systems and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and infuses systems security engineering
techniques, methods, and practices into those systems and software
engineering processes. The ultimate objective is to address security issues from
a stakeholder requirements and protection needs perspective and to use
established organizational processes to ensure that such requirements and
needs are addressed early in and throughout the life cycle of the system.
Financial Services Information
This white paper aims to further improved controls operating in concert with
Sharing and Analysis Center (FS-
vendor management practices to advance the relationship http://docs.ismgcorp.com/files/external/WP_FSISAC_T
ISAC), Appropriate Software Security 2015
between security and third party software service providers and commercial off-hird_Party_Software_Security_Working_Group.pdf
Control Types for Third Party Service
the-shelf software (COTS) vendors.
and Product Providers (version 2.1.3)CSRIC Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software - Security-by-Design
Reference List
Short Title Title Year of Issuance Abstract Link
Information Technology -- Open
This standard is intended to help commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) information
Trusted Technology ProviderTM
ISO/IEC and communication technology (ICT) providers prevent the introduction of http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumbe
Standard (O-TTPS) -- Mitigating 2015
20243:2015 tampered or counterfeit product components at any stage of the product life r=67394
maliciously tainted and counterfeit
cycle to mitigate risk.
products
ISO/IEC 27002:2013 gives guidelines for organizational information security
Information technology -- Security
standards and information security management practices including the http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail?csnumber=54
ISO/IEC 27002 techniques -- Code of practice for 2013
selection, implementation and management of controls taking into 533
information security controls
consideration the organization's information security risk environment(s).
This guidebook provides process and technology guidance to increase the level
of system assurance. This guidebook is in tended primarily to aid program
managers (PMs) and systems engineers (SEs) who are seeking guidance on how
to incorporate assurance measures into their system life cycles. Assurance for
security must be integrated into the systems engineering activities to be cost-
NDIA Engineering for System http://www.acq.osd.mil/se/docs/SA-Guidebook-v1-
2008 effective, timely, and consistent. In systems engineering, the activities for
Assurance (version 1) Oct2008.pdf
developing and maintaining the assurance case enable rational decision making,
so that only the actions necessary to provide adequate justification (arguments
and evidence) are performed. This guidebook is a synthesis of knowledge
gained from existing practices, recommendations, policies, and mandates.
System assurance activities are executed throughout the system life cycle.
The Framework, created through collaboration between industry and
government, consists of standards, guidelines, and practices to promote the
NIST CSF 2014 protection of critical infrastructure. The prioritized, flexible, repeatable, and http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/index.cfm
cost-effective approach of the Framework helps owners and operators of
critical infrastructure to manage cybersecurity-related risk.
This standards is aimed at assuring both the integrity of commercial off-the-
Open Group Trusted Technology shelf (COTS) information and communication technology (ICT) products and the
O-TTPS Version http://www.opengroup.org/news/press/OTTPS-
Provider Standard (O-TTPS) 2015 security of their supply chains. It helps to safeguard the products and their
1.1 approved-as-ISO-IEC-international-standard
Accreditation Program global supply chains against the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity
attacks.CSRIC Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software - Security-by-Design
Reference List
Short Title Title Year of Issuance Abstract Link
This publication provides a catalog of security and privacy controls for federal
information systems and organizations and a process for selecting controls to
protect organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, and
reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the
Nation from a diverse set of threats including hostile cyber attacks, natural
disasters, structural failures, and human errors. The controls are customizable
and implemented as part of an organization-wide process that manages
Security and Privacy Controls for information security and privacy risk. The controls address a diverse set of
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NI
NIST SP 800-53 Federal Information Systems and 2013 security and privacy requirements across the federal government and critical
ST.SP.800-53r4.pdf
Organizations infrastructure, derived from legislation, Executive Orders, policies, directives,
regulations, standards, and/or mission/business needs. The publication also
describes how to develop specialized sets of controls, or overlays, tailored for
specific types of missions/business functions, technologies, or environments of
operation. Finally, the catalog of security controls addresses security from both
a functionality perspective (the strength of security functions and mechanisms
provided) and an assurance perspective (the measures of confidence in the
implemented security capability).
Software Integrity Controls, An This paper is focused on examining the software integrity element of software
Assurance-Based Approach to assurance and provides insight into the controls that SAFECode members have http://www.safecode.org/publication/SAFECode_Softw
2010
Minimizing Risks in the Software identified as effective for minimizing the risk that intentional and unintentional are_Integrity_Controls0610.pdf
Supply Chain vulnerabilities could be inserted into the software supply chain.
This publication provides guidance to federal agencies on identifying,
assessing, and mitigating ICT supply chain risks at all levels of their
Supply Chain Risk Management
NIST SP 800- organizations. The publication integrates ICT supply chain risk management http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NI
Practices for Federal Information 2015
161 (SCRM) into federal agency risk management activities by applying a ST.SP.800-161.pdf
Systems and Organizations
multitiered, SCRM-specific approach, including guidance on assessing supply
chain risk and applying mitigation activities.CSRIC Working Group 6: Secure Hardware and Software - Security-by-Design
Reference List
Short Title Title Year of Issuance Abstract Link
ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015 establishes a common framework of process
descriptions for describing the life cycle of systems created by humans. It
defines a set of processes and associated terminology from an engineering
Systems and software
ISO/IEC/IEEE viewpoint. These processes can be applied at any level in the hierarchy of a http://www.iso.org/iso/home/store/catalogue_ics/cata
engineering – System life cycle 2015
15288:2015 system's structure. Selected sets of these processes can be applied throughout logue_detail_ics.htm?csnumber=63711
processes
the life cycle for managing and performing the stages of a system's life cycle.
This is accomplished through the involvement of all stakeholders, with the
ultimate goal of achieving customer satisfaction.
This paper assesses software supply chain integrity in the context of software
The Software Supply Chain Integrity
engineering, providing a framework and common taxonomy for evaluating the
Framework, Defining Risks and http://www.safecode.org/publication/SAFECode_Suppl
2009 associated risks and defining the industry’s role in addressing them. This
Responsibilities for Securing Software y_Chain0709.pdf
framework will serve as the foundation for subsequent work aimed at
in the Global Supply Chain
describing and analyzing software integrity best practices.
