PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRIC_III_WG11_Report_March_%202013Final.pdf:
March 2013 Working Group 11
Consensus
Cyber Security
Controls
Final Report
Final Report
Consensus Cyber Security Controls
March 6, 2013
WORKING GROUP 11 –
Consensus Cyber Security ControlsThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Table of Contents
1 Executive Summary ................................................................................................. 3
2 Background .............................................................................................................. 4
3 Introduction .............................................................................................................. 5
3.1 CSRIC Structure....................................................................................................... 5
3.2 CSRIC Working Group 11 Structure ......................................................................... 5
3.3 Working Group 11 Team Members .......................................................................... 5
4 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ......................................................................... 6
4.1 Objective .................................................................................................................. 6
4.2 Scope ....................................................................................................................... 6
4.3 Methodology ............................................................................................................. 7
5 Recommendations ................................................................................................... 7
7 Conclusions .............................................................................................................. 9
8 Appendices ............................................................................................................ 10
Appendix 1: The Assignment for Working Group 11 .................................................... 11
Appendix 2: The FCC Liaison’s Charge to the Working Group delivered by email to all
members on August 30, 2012 ...................................................................................... 12
Appendix 3: The 20 Critical Controls: a Brief History, the Controls, and 4 Quick Wins 13
Appendix 5: Exclusions and Limitations in the Analysis ............................................... 18
Appendix 6: Tasks of Working Group 11, and Results ................................................. 20
Task 1: Assess the degree to which the consensus lists of critical controls are applicable to
the communications industry. ............................................................................................ 20
Tasks 2 and 3: Identify gaps between the critical controls and the existing CSRIC best
practices and recommend a superset of the most critical controls for application in the
communications industry. .................................................................................................. 24
Task 4: Recommend updates to the best practices list compiled by CSRIC II with a
prioritized list of critical cybersecurity controls that are applicable to the communications
industry. .................................................................................................................................. 26
Page 2 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
1 Executive Summary
In August 2012, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) indicated that it had
recently become aware of the Twenty Critical Security Controls1 (20 Controls) and
convened Working Group 11 of the Communications, Security, Reliability, and
Interoperability Council (CSRIC) to determine the applicability of the 20 Controls to the
communications sector. To effectively manage the effort, the FCC emphasized that the
focus of this activity is on protection of carrier and Internet Service Provider (ISP)
network operations both directly and through enterprise systems connected to
operational technology, but did not encompass customer premises equipment.
Working Group 11 was tasked with comparing the 20 Controls with the CSRIC II best
practices and determining which of the CSRIC II best practices might need to be added
to the 20 Controls to enable them to deal with the attacks frequently launched against
communications companies and their infrastructure.
Working Group 11 updated and reorganized the Cyber Security Best Practices that
were last published in March 2011 as part of CSRIC II’s Working Group 2A. The
Working Group 2A effort leveraged a large body of cyber security best practices that
were previously created by the Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC).
Recognizing that many years had passed and that the “state-of-the-art” in cyber
security has advanced rapidly since then, Working Group 2A took a fresh look at the
cyber security best practices, including all segments of the communications industry
and public safety communities. The Working Group 2A report noted that “not every
recommendation will be appropriate for every company in every circumstance, but
taken as a whole, the Council expects that these findings and recommendations [when
implemented} will sustain and continuously improve network reliability.”
Working Group 11 continued the work related to one of Working Group 2A’s key
findings, specifically which, “in light of the current urgency” service providers and
network operators “are encouraged to prioritize their review of these Best Practices and
prioritize their timely, appropriate actions.” Much has been accomplished in a relatively
brief period of time by the participants in Working Group 11. By leveraging the work
completed by numerous international and domestic agencies that produced the 20
Controls and by reviewing them in the context of carrier network operations, Working
Group 11 successfully developed a similar set of critical controls that are relevant to the
communications industry. By doing so, Working Group 11 was able to map the CSRIC
II best practices under a revised control classification which resulted in a prioritized set
of new best practices.
Working Group 11 recommends that the best practices list compiled by CSRIC II be
modified to reflect the prioritized set of critical cyber security controls that have been
identified to be applicable to the communications industry. Working Group 11 also
recommends that the FCC support the industry’s efforts to continue to develop,
prioritize, and refine best practices that are consistent with evolving cyber-attacks and
1 http://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls/
Page 3 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
exploits, while ensuring that all participants in the ecosystem are equally vested in an
appropriate approach to cyber security. Finally, Working Group 11 encourages the
FCC to support current efforts within the United States (U.S.) government to avoid
duplicative agency activities.
When Working Group 11 was convened, it was already late in the CSRIC III process,
and some participants expressed concern that there may not be enough time to fully
realize the goals of the Working Group. Accordingly, some participants received
assurances that the core focus of Working Group 11 was to map the 397 best practices
previously developed by Working Group 2A in CSRIC II to the subsequently developed
list of 20 Controls for enterprises. Working Group 11 participants were committed and
worked accordingly to ensure that at a minimum, a gap analysis could be completed
during CSRIC III so as to be better prepared for future development and activity in this
area. Accordingly, aspects of this report that go beyond the basic mapping and gap
analysis, while laudable and useful in many respects, may not fully reflect consideration
by all of the Working Group 11 members. It is recommended that future development
of cyber security practices for the communications sector include efforts to have the
conclusions and recommendations of the Working Group in the specific areas
enumerated in Recommendation (c) be vetted, continually reviewed, and updated by a
broad cross-section of communications sector industry participants.
2 Background
In February 2009 the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) published
the first version of a consensus list of critical security controls – essential best practices
that are known to block or mitigate the effect of cyber intrusions. Compiled jointly by
representatives of the National Security Agency (NSA), Department of Homeland
Security (DHS), the nuclear energy labs of the Department of Energy, the Department
of Defense (DoD) Cyber Crime Center (DC3), the Joint Task Force-Global Network
Operations (JTF-GNO) and many commercial organizations, these guidelines were
unique because they were informed directly by in depth knowledge of all known attack
vectors.
Three years and three updates later, the British and U.S. governments came together
to jointly document the importance of these essential controls. As a result of this
collaborative effort, the British Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure
(CPNI), the U.S. State Department and the U.S. DHS adopted the consensus best
practices as the foundations for broad based initiatives to better protect the computers
and networks that serve their respective national governments
On June 9, 2012, U.S. Cyber Command’s General Keith Alexander announced that the
NSA and the U.S. Cyber Command had also determined that the consensus guidelines
are the path forward for protecting government and critical infrastructure computers and
networks.
Page 4 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
3 Introduction
In August 2012, the FCC indicated that it had recently become aware of the 20 Controls
and convened Working Group 11 to determine the applicability of the 20 Controls to the
communications sector. To effectively manage the effort, the FCC emphasized that the
focus of this activity is on protection of carrier and ISP network operations both directly
and through enterprise systems connected to operational technology; however, they did
not include customer premises equipment. Working Group 11 was tasked with
comparing the 20 Controls with the CSRIC II best practices and determining which of
the CSRIC II best practices might need to be added to the 20 Controls to enable them
to deal with the attacks frequently launched against communications companies and
their infrastructure.
3.1 CSRIC Structure
3.2 CSRIC Working Group 11 Structure
Working Group 11 was co-chaired by Alan Paller of the SANS Institute and Marcus
Sachs of Verizon Communications. Working Group 11 included representatives from
user organizations, ISPs, suppliers of software and network equipment, academia, as
well as other organizations that are a part of the Internet ecosystem.
3.3 Working Group 11 Team Members
Working Group 11 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Doug Davis Hypercube
Brett Kilbourne Utilities Telecom Council
Jack Doane Alabama State Government and NASCIO
Dan Traynor Tenness ee Valley Authority
Craig Spiezle Online Trust Alliance
Dorothy Spears-Dean VITA Virginia
Page 5 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Sue Plantz California State Government
Mike O’Reirdan MAAWG
Bill McInnis Internet Identity
Patrick McGuire California Office of Information Security
Micah Maciejewski Sprint
Kevin Frank Sprint
Frank Durda IV Hypercube
Martin Dolly AT&T
Tony Sager National Security Agency (ret.)
Rodney Buie TeleCommunications Systems
Ezra Berkenwald Sprint
Robert Mayer US Telecom
Andy Scott NCTA
Chris Boyer AT&T
Phil Agcaoili Cox Communications
Russell Eubanks Cox Communications
Allen Sautter Cox Communications
David Dumas Verizon
Jeffrey Barker Syniverse Technologies
John Kelly Comcast
Chris Richardson Internet Identity
Michael Glenn CenturyLink
Min Hyun Microsoft
Beau Monday Hawaiian Telcom
Table 1 - List of Working Group 11 Members
4 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
4.1 Objective
CSRIC tasked Working Group 11: Consensus Cyber Security Controls with determining
the applicability of the consensus 20Controls to the communications sector, and with
determining which existing CSRIC cyber security best practices should be included with
the applicable critical controls to comprehensively cover known attack vectors – other
than those attack vectors, such as Domain Name System (DNS) and Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP), which were covered by other CSRIC III Working Groups.
4.2 Scope
This section identifies the problem statement, working group scope, and deliverables
which were outlined in the CSRIC III working group description for Working Group 11.
Problem Statement: The growth of cyber security threats over the past decade has
affected all parts of the Internet ecosystem, including the networks maintained by
Page 6 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
communications providers. In particular, the rapid growth of advanced persistent threats
(APTs), malware, and increasingly sophisticated and commercially available products
represent a meaningful threat to the vitality and resiliency of the Internet and to the
online economy. Communications providers and other ecosystem stakeholders and
their government partners have a shared responsibility and mutual incentives to ensure
the security and reliability of communication networks.
Working Group 11 Description: Working Group 11 was asked to examine and make
recommendations to the Council regarding technical cyber security controls that can
provide the most effective possible mitigation of known cyber risks to the systems and
control elements that are likely to mitigate the risks of material and destructive
consequences on provider networks and the customers they serve.
Working Group 11 was asked to “assess the degree to which the consensus lists of
critical controls are applicable to the communications industry, identify gaps between
the critical controls and the existing CSRIC best practices, and recommend a superset
of the most critical controls for application in the communications industry. The Working
Group will recommend updates to the best practices list.”
DNS security, BGP security, and Botnet Remediation were out of scope for this effort
because other CSRIC III working groups (Working Groups 5, 6, and 7 respectively)
were tasked with addressing these critical Internet protocols.
4.3 Methodology
Working Group 11 began its research into practices that can mitigate cyber risks to
carrier and ISP networks and operations by assembling a team of experts from multiple
carrier and ISP segments, government, and academia, who collectively represent
diverse stakeholders in the development and implementation of cyber risk mitigation
practices and strategies. To accomplish this, Working Group 11 used several major
work streams to accomplish the following:
(1) Analyze the 20 Controls for applicability to the communications industry.
(2) Analyze CSRIC II Working Group 2A: Cybersecurity Best Practices final report and
recommendations, which included:
- Correlating all 397 best practices with the 20 Controls,
- Determining the uniqueness and applicability to the communications industry
and challenges of implementation, and
- Determining which CSRIC 2A best practices should be classified as essential
because they stop or mitigate damage from known attack vectors.
5 Recommendations
a. There is not a consensus within Working Group 11 regarding the extent to which
the FCC should encourage the communications industry to use the 20 Controls. The
Page 7 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
user community within Working Group 11 would prefer for the FCC to encourage
industry to use the 20 Controls because they believe that the 20 Controls will protect
the network infrastructure directly. The user group also believes that the 20 Controls
have been demonstrated to be effective in protecting critical infrastructure from attacks
that are likely to come through the enterprise systems and therefore the 20 Controls
should be used by the communications industry. However, while the 20 Controls have
been effective in guiding security management in enterprise and government
institutions, the communications sector participants believe that some unique aspects of
managing diverse multi-tenant communications networks will require additional
evaluation in order to determine the extent to which the 20 Controls protect network
infrastructure directly; as well as, to determine the applicability of the 20 Controls to
communications sector.
b. The FCC should encourage the industry, working with experts from other areas
of cyber security, to share threat information, to continue to define prioritized controls
and to develop, prioritize, and refine associated best practices consistent with the ever
evolving cyber-attacks and exploits.
c. The FCC should encourage continued review and improvement of cyber security
practices for the communications sector to include:
a. Vetting the conclusions and recommendations of Working Group 11 by a
broader cross-section of communications sector industry participants;
b. Updating, reorganizing, and prioritizing the cyber security best practices;
c. Estimating level-of-effort associated with typical implementations of such best
practices;
d. Recommending technical cyber security controls that can provide the most
effective possible mitigation of known cyber risks to the systems and control
elements that are likely to mitigate the risks of material and destructive
consequences on provider networks and the customers they serve;
e. Determining the extent to which the 20 Controls protect network infrastructure
directly;
f. Determining the applicability of the 20 Controls to the communications sector;
g. Recommending a superset of the most critical controls that should be
considered for application in the communications industry;
h. Determining the uniqueness and applicability to the communications industry
and challenges of implementation;
i. Determining which CSRIC 2A best practices should be classified as essential
because they stop or mitigate damage from known attack vectors;
j. Recommending the addition of a 21st Control, which is uniquely applicable to
communications related to Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) mitigation;
k. Assessing whether implementation of particular controls is applicable to
communications or is likely to cause damage....."(and the related “notes” in
Appendix 6, Task 1); and
l. Determining which of the best practices compiled by CSRIC II are important
in stopping known attacks as outlined in Appendix 6, Task 4.
Page 8 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
7 Conclusions
Working Group 11 evaluated the 20 Controls for their applicability to the Carrier and
ISP network environment and found all 20 to be applicable in the environments they
were designed to protect. It identified one critical control, applicable to all users of the
Critical Controls, which was incomplete; and provided guidance to the 20 Critical
Controls Steering Committee that was accepted for the upcoming version. It also found
one major communications-specific control (DDoS mitigation) should be added to the
20 Controls, which would make it the 21 Critical Controls for Protecting
Communications Infrastructure from Known Cyber Threats.
Page 9 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
8 Appendices
Contents:
Appendix 1: The Assignment for Working Group ........................................................ 11
Appendix 2. The FCC Liaison’s Charge to the Working Group delivered by email to all
members on August 30, 2012 ...................................................................................... 12
Appendix 3: The 20 Critical Controls: a Brief History, the Controls, and 4 Quick Wins 13
Appendix 4: Membership and Voluntary Assignments ................................................. 17
Appendix 5: Exclusions and Limitations in the Analysis ............................................... 18
Appendix 6: Tasks of Working Group 11, and Results ................................................. 20
Task 1: Assess the degree to which the consensus lists of critical controls are applicable to
the communications industry. ............................................................................................ 20
Tasks 2 and 3: Identify gaps between the critical controls and the existing CSRIC best
practices and recommend a superset of the most critical controls for application in the
communications industry. .................................................................................................. 24
Task 4: Recommend updates to the best practices list compiled by CSRIC II with a
prioritized list of critical cyber security controls that are applicable to the communications
industry. ................................................................................................................... 26
Page 10 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 1: The Assignment for Working Group 11
Source: http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric3/wg-descriptions.pdf
Working Group 11 – Consensus Cybersecurity Controls
Co-Chair – Alan Paller, SANS Institute
Co-Chair – Marcus Sachs, Verizon
FCC Liaison – Jeff Goldthorp
Description: This Working Group will examine and make recommendations to the
Council regarding technical cybersecurity controls that can provide the most effective
possible mitigation of known cyber risks to the business systems and networks
maintained by communications providers and to the data maintained on and processed
by those systems.
In carrying out its work, the working group will evaluate and contrast the “critical cyber
security controls” adopted by the National Security Agency, the Department of
Homeland Security in the United States, and the UK Centre for the Protection of
National Infrastructure and the Australian Defense Signals Directorate, with the existing
set of CSRIC cybersecurity best practices. The working group will assess the degree to
which the consensus lists of critical controls are applicable to the communications
industry, identify gaps between the critical controls and the existing CSRIC best
practices, and recommend a superset of the most critical controls for application in the
communications industry. The Working Group will recommend updates to the best
practices list compiled by CSRIC II with a prioritized list of critical cybersecurity controls
that are applicable to the communications industry.
Duration:
1. Revised, prioritized list of critical cybersecurity controls - March 6, 2013
Page 11 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 2: The FCC Liaison’s Charge to the Working
Group delivered by email to all members on August 30, 2012
Members of WG 11 -
Thank you for volunteering to contribute to WG 11. I would especially like to thank Alan
Paller and Marc Sachs for agreeing to lead the work.
During the September 5 kick-off call, I will speak to the group about the charge the FCC
has given the group. Alan will speak about the 20 Core Controls, including how they
were arrived at. Marc will speak about the leadership's plans for the weeks ahead. We
expect the meeting to be interactive.
I want to emphasize three things from the outset:
1. The focus of this activity is carrier and ISP network operations, which was the
primary focus of the CSRIC II cybersecurity best practices. The Working Group will
consider all CSRIC II Best Practices and compare them with the 20 Critical Controls.
2. The scope of this activity is the 20 Core Controls. I understand that there are
subtending elements to the Controls and, to the extent the Working Group deems it
helpful, we encourage them to be considered in the process. But this is not a
requirement.
3. The CSRIC and its Working Groups are obligated to operate in full compliance with
the Federal Advisory Committee Act. This statute places an emphasis on openness and
transparency. Work product, including drafts, of WG 11, for example, is subject to
public disclosure pursuant to the terms of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). The
business of the Working Group should be conducted in an open fashion. Please keep
this in mind as you conduct yourselves in the Working Group.
Thank you again for agreeing to support this important initiative,
Jeff Goldthorp
Designated Federal Officer
CSRIC
======
Page 12 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 3: The 20 Controls: a Brief History, the Controls,
and Four Quick Wins
A Brief History of the 20 Critical Controls
In 2008, the Office of the Secretary of Defense asked the NSA for help in prioritizing the
myriad security controls that were available for cybersecurity. The request went to the
NSA because the NSA best understood how cyber attacks worked and which attacks
were used most frequently. The request came at a moment when the theme “offense
must inform defense” had become a White House mantra for cybersecurity.
The objective was to help DoD prioritize its cybersecurity spending. The NSA had been
refining a list of security controls that were most effective in stopping known attacks
since the early 2000s, which was based on earlier requests from the military services
and reinforced by guidance from the White House. The Central Intelligence Agency’s
(CIA’s) Tom Donahue, who was assigned to the White House cyber policy team,
described the mandate as follows: “first fix the known bads.” That meant no control
should be made a priority unless it could be shown to stop or mitigate a known attack.
That mandate was the key that came to separate the 20 critical controls from most
other lists of controls.
The list of key controls that blocked the most frequent attacks was “for official use only”
(FOUO) and could not be widely shared. However, the NSA had been participating in a
public-private partnership involving the Center for Internet Security (CIS) and the SANS
Institute for more than a decade. When approached by CIS and SANS, the NSA
agreed to participate in a public-private consortium to share its attack information to
provide the same type of control-prioritization knowledge for civilian government
agencies and critical infrastructure. The NSA reasoned that the military could not
protect the nation if the critical communications, power and financial sectors were not
also protected.
The consortium members expanded to include others that had formal access to high
value threat information, either because they had large teams that developed and used
attack techniques or because they had large teams that performed the deep after-
attack analysis that disclosed tactics, techniques and method used by attackers,
Additions to the coalition included the United Kingdom’s CESG (Communications-
Electronics Security Group) and CPNI (Centre for Protection of Critical Infrastructure)
the DoD, the FBI, as well as a number of companies in the incident response field, such
as Mandiant and InGuardians, who did high value analysis of major attacks. Further
expansion brought in the Defense Cyber Crime Center, three Department of Energy
(DOE) laboratories, and companies like McAfee and Lockheed that had experience with
major breaches.
The group built consensus at each step, surprising many by their willingness to share
sensitive attack data. The two overarching factors that enabled active sharing was (1)
the agreement that only actual attack information could be used to justify adding any
controls, and (2) the membership was so impressive that participants knew that the
Page 13 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
results would be authoritative and they wanted to be active contributors to something
that could make a difference in protecting the nation. Surprisingly, the clear consensus
of the consortium was that there were only 20 Critical Controls that addressed the most
prevalent attacks found in government and industry. This then became the focus for an
initial draft document. The draft of the 20 Critical Controls was circulated in early 2009
to several hundred IT and security organizations for further review and comment. Over
50 organizations commented on the draft. They overwhelmingly endorsed the concept
of a focused set of controls and the selection of the 20 Critical Controls. These
commenters also provided valuable "fine tuning" to the control descriptions.
The consortium reconnected with current and additional members every 6 to 12 months
to ensure new attack information was reflected fully and that new techniques for
mitigating old attacks were included. Other improvements to the 20 Critical Controls
over time include measures by which organizations could know how well they had
implemented the controls and a list of automated tools that have been validated (by
thorough reference checks) to be effective in implementing the controls.
In the fall of 2008, the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) had
convened a bipartisan panel, at the request two leading members of Congress, called
the Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency. The Commission’s report
made CSIS a respected source of guidance on cyber security. As a continuation of the
Commission’s work, it was natural for CSIS to become the first publisher of the 20
Critical Controls.
In 2009, the U.S. Department of State validated the consensus controls by determining
whether the controls covered the 3,085 attacks it had experienced in 2009. In a
presentation to the Intelligence Community, the State Department CISO reported
remarkable alignment of the consensus controls and the State Department actual
attacks. He also launched a program to implement automated capabilities to enforce
the key controls and provide daily mitigation status information to every system
administrator across 24 time zones in which the State Department operates. With a
very rapid achievement of a more than 88% reduction in vulnerability-based risk across
85,000 systems, the State Department’s program became a model for large
government and private sector organizations. In December of 2011, DHS named the
State Department CISO as the director of the National Cyber Security Division, with the
mandate to bring about the same type and level of risk reduction across the
government and the critical infrastructure as he had led at the State Department.
Also in December 2011, the United Kingdom’s Centre for the Protection of National
Infrastructure (CPNI) announced to United Kingdom government agencies and critical
industries that the United Kingdom government would adopt the 20 Critical Controls as
the framework for securing the critical infrastructure going forward. And in May of 2012,
the Commander of the U.S. Cyber Command and Director of the NSA announced that
he believed adoption of the 20 Critical Controls was a good foundation for effective
cybersecurity, and that they are an excellent example of how public and private sector
organizations can voluntarily come together to improve security. His endorsement was
the result of the NSAs investment over the period of a year of some of its top talent
vetting the 20 Critical Controls to be certain they reflected the actual risks faced by
industrial and government systems.
Page 14 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
In June 2012, the Idaho National Laboratory, home of the National Supervisory Control
And Data Acquisition (SCADA) Test Bed, of the U.S. Department of Energy, completed
a very favorable analysis of how the 20 Critical Controls applied in the electric sector as
a first step in assessing the applicability of the controls to specific industrial sectors.
The Controls
Updated versions of the 20 Critical Controls are maintained at
http://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls/
The Critical Controls, ordered generally by importance (and hyperlinked to the master
20 Critical Controls document):
• Critical Control 1: Inventory of Authorized and Unauthorized Devices
• Critical Control 2: Inventory of Authorized and Unauthorized Software
• Critical Control 3: Secure Configurations for Hardware and Software on Mobile
Devices, Laptops, Workstations, and Servers
• Critical Control 4: Continuous Vulnerability Assessment and Remediation
• Critical Control 5: Malware Defenses
• Critical Control 6: Application Software Security
• Critical Control 7: Wireless Device Control
• Critical Control 8: Data Recovery Capability
• Critical Control 9: Security Skills Assessment and Appropriate Training to Fill
Gaps
• Critical Control 10: Secure Configurations for Network Devices such as
Firewalls, Routers, and Switches
• Critical Control 11: Limitation and Control of Network Ports, Protocols, and
Services
• Critical Control 12: Controlled Use of Administrative Privileges
• Critical Control 13: Boundary Defense
• Critical Control 14: Maintenance, Monitoring, and Analysis of Audit Logs
• Critical Control 15: Controlled Access Based on the Need to Know
• Critical Control 16: Account Monitoring and Control
• Critical Control 17: Data Loss Prevention
• Critical Control 18: Incident Response and Management
• Critical Control 19: Secure Network Engineering
• Critical Control 20: Penetration Tests and Red Team Exercises
Within each of the critical controls, sub-controls are grouped in four categories:
1) Quick wins on fundamental aspects of information security to help an organization
rapidly improve its security stance without major procedural, architectural, or
technical changes to its environment.
Page 15 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
2) Visibility and attribution measures to improve the process, architecture, and
technical capabilities of organizations to monitor their networks and computer
systems to detect attack attempts, locate points of entry, identify already-
compromised machines, interrupt infiltrated attackers’ activities, and gain
information about the sources of an attack.
3) Improved information security configuration and hygiene to reduce the number and
magnitude of security vulnerabilities and improve the operations of networked
computer systems, with a focus on protecting against poor security practices by
system administrators and end-users that could give an attacker an advantage.
4) Advanced sub-controls that use new technologies that provide maximum security
but are harder to deploy or more expensive than commoditized security solutions.
Four Quick Wins
Substantial evidence exists to demonstrate that four low-cost, low-impact “Quick Wins”
are effective in blocking the vast majority of the targeted intrusions known as
“Advanced Persistent Threat” that have been responsible for the loss of terabytes of
sensitive military and commercial intellectual property. Those four quick wins, generally
considered to be the highest-impact, lowest cost security controls to protect important
information systems, include:2
1) White listing
2) Application patching within 48 hours of patch release3
3) System patching within 48 hours of patch release4
4) Reduction in the number of users with administrative privileges
2 While there is widespread agreement that white listing, application and system patching and
reducing the number of users with administration privileges are useful tools and recommended
steps that should be evaluated by Communications Sector Participants, application and system
patching within 48 hours may not be suitable for all network elements in every instance, in
particular in the mobile environment, and white listing may be appropriate in certain instances
but not in others. There is a need for individual companies who have differing network
architectures to determine the feasibility of these recommendations within their networks.
3 One industry participant noted that inside major infrastructure organizations the
implementation should be worded: “Commence the application patching process within 48 hours
of patch release” to fit it into scheduled maintenance windows.
4 Ibid. “Commence the system patching process within 48 hours of patch release”
Page 16 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 4: Membership and Voluntary Assignments
Co-chairs
*Alan Paller, SANS Institute
Marc Sachs, Verizon Communications
Active members, sorted by employer name
(Voluntary assignments shown in parentheses are the CSRIC II best practice
categories that our Working Group evaluated to determine how to improve the 20
Critical Controls and adapt them for use in the communications industry.)
Martin Dolly, AT&T
Chris Boyer, AT&T (Wireless)
Michael Glenn, Century Link (IP Services)
John Kelly, Comcast (Encryption)
Russell Eubanks, Cox Communications (Incident Response, Vulnerability
Management, plus most other categories)
Phil Agcaoili, Cox Communications (All categories other than Network)
Allen Sautter, Cox Communications (Network)
Beau Monday, Hawaiian Telcom (Legacy Services)
Frank Durda IV, Hypercube (Network)
*Doug Davis, Hypercube (Network)
Chris Richardson, Internet Identity (Incident Response, People)
Bill McInnis, Internet Identity (IP Services)
Min Hyun, Microsoft (Identity Management)
Andy Scott, National Cable & Telecommunications Association
Kevin Stine, NIST (People)
Tony Sager, NSA- Division Director, VAO, recently retired
*Craig Spiezle, Online Trust Alliance
Sue Plantz, Public Safety Communications Office, State of California (Network)
Patrick McGuire, California Office of Information Security (Incident Response,
Vulnerability Management)
Micah H. Maciejewski, Sprint (Wireless)
Kevin Frank, Sprint (Wireless)
Ezra Berkenwald, Sprint (Wireless)
*Jack Doane, State of Alabama and the National Association of State CIOs (Identity
Management)
Jeffery Barker, Syniverse Technologies (Network)
Rodney Buie, TeleCommunication Systems (Wireless)
*Dan Traynor, Tennessee Valley Authority
Robert Mayer, U.S. Telecom
*Brett Kilbourne, Utilities Telecom Council
Nadya Bartol, Utilities Telecom Council
David Dumas, Verizon Communications (Network)
*Dorothy Spears-Dean, Virginia Information Technologies Agency (Encryption,
Legacy Services)
*Members of the FCC’s Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability
Council
Page 17 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 5: Exclusions and Limitations in the Analysis
Early in its deliberations, Working Group 11 determined that its charter would be
constrained as follows:
1. The Working Group would limit its analysis to ISP and carrier systems and exclude
systems that were located at customer premises, even if those systems were owned
by the ISP or carrier.
a. The group acknowledges that end users CPE (even operator owned) do
have issues and need their own independent review by a future working
group from the perspective of their implementation and place in the
network.
b. Other “home/office” equipment needs review as well. As technology
increases in the workplace the risks of security incidents also increase. A
lot of small businesses are turning the Microsoft Lync, Asterisk or similar
platforms to mitigate costs. These turnkey solutions targeted at the home
or very small offices, have considerable risk to them to both the users and
the public networks. A future working group too should examine this.
c. Carriers and ISPs are constantly innovating; therefore care was taken
(and should be taken in the future) not to accidentally dictate architecture
or implementation directives. Such things stifle innovation that the
communications ecosystem needs to survive and remain competitive. It
is vital that this paper and any derivative works do not mandate any
details but rather point out the best practices as the time of its publication
knowing full well that these practices will be quickly deprecated as time
moves and evolution continues.
2. The Working Group would not duplicate activities of other CSRIC III Working
Groups, particularly the following:
a. Working Group 4: Network Security: defined as “best practices to secure the
Domain Name System (DNS) and routing system of the Internet during the
period leading up to the successful global implementation of the Domain
Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) and Secure BGP (Border
Gateway Protocol) extensions”
b. Working Group 5 – DNSSEC Implementation Practices for ISPs
c. Working Group 6 – Secure BGP Deployment
d. Working Group 7 – Botnet Remediation
3. With regard to “enterprise systems,” Mr. Goldthorp’s charge (See Appendix 2) said:
“The focus of this activity is carrier and ISP network operations, which was the
primary focus of the CSRIC II cybersecurity best practices.”
Page 18 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
The Working Group determined that unsecured enterprise systems are a principal
attack vector through which ISP and carrier network operations are attacked
because the latter are frequently connected to the former and have widely known
and widely exploited vulnerabilities. This finding is consistent with the CSRIC II
cybersecurity best practices many of which were targeted to protecting enterprise
systems. Therefore, Working Group 11 operated under the assumption that effective
protection of enterprise systems is a necessary ingredient of effective protection of
network operations.
Page 19 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Appendix 6: Tasks of Working Group 11, and Results
The Working Group’s mandate was defined by the FCC and is posted on the FCC website
(Source: http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric3/wg-descriptions.pdf
Tasks assigned to the Working Group
“The working group will evaluate and contrast the “critical cyber security controls”
adopted by the National Security Agency, the Department of Homeland Security in the
United States, and the UK Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and the
Australian Defense Signals Directorate, with the existing set of CSRIC cybersecurity
best practices.” The working group will
Task 1: “assess the degree to which the consensus lists of critical controls are
applicable to the communications industry,
Task 2: “identify gaps between the critical controls and the existing CSRIC best
practices, and
Task 3: “recommend a superset of the most critical controls for application in the
communications industry.
Task 4: “recommend updates to the best practices list compiled by CSRIC II with a
prioritized list of critical cybersecurity controls that are applicable to the
communications industry.”
Results
Task 1: Assess the degree to which the consensus lists of critical controls are
applicable to the communications industry.
During September 2012, the Working Group systematically reviewed the 20 Controls
Version 4.0 posted at http://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls/. Each Control was
reviewed by at least two members of the Working Group and some Controls were
reviewed by three members. The results are shown in Table A6.1 below.
Page 20 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Table A6.1 Applicability of Critical Controls to the Communications Industry
Applicable in
Communications Likely to Cause
Enterprise Damage if
Critical Control Networks Implemented
Critical Control 1: Inventory of Authorized and Unauthorized Devices Yes No
Critical Control 2: Inventory of Authorized and Unauthorized Software Yes No
Critical Control 3: Secure Configurations for Hardware and Software on
Mobile Devices, Laptops, Workstations, and Servers Yes (Note 6) Possibly (Note 1)
Possibly (Notes 4
Critical Control 4: Continuous Vulnerability Assessment and Remediation Yes and 20)
Critical Control 5: Malware Defenses Yes (Note 12) No
Critical Control 6: Application Software Security Yes No
Critical Control 7: Wireless Device Control Yes (Note 3) No
Critical Control 8: Data Recovery Capability Yes No
Critical Control 9: Security Skills Assessment and Appropriate Training to
Fill Gaps Yes No
Critical Control 10: Secure Configurations for Network Devices such as
Firewalls, Routers, and Switches Yes Possibly (Note 8)
Critical Control 11: Limitation and Control of Network Ports, Protocols,
and Services Yes Possibly (Note 11)
Critical Control 12: Controlled Use of Administrative Privileges Yes Possibly (Note 5)
Critical Control 13: Boundary Defense Yes No
Critical Control 14: Maintenance, Monitoring, and Analysis of Audit Logs Yes No
Critical Control 15: Controlled Access Based on the Need to Know Yes No
Critical Control 16: Account Monitoring and Control Yes Possibly (Note 9)
Critical Control 17: Data Loss Prevention Yes No (Note 10)
Critical Control 18: Incident Response and Management Yes No
Critical Control 19: Secure Network Engineering Yes Possibly (Note 2)
Critical Control 20: Penetration Tests and Red Team Exercises Yes Possibly (Note 7)
Note 1: The challenge is in operational management of images. Before implementation,
extensive testing is required to ensure compatibility with mission-critical applications.
Secure configurations do change over time, so regression testing is required before
updating, especially for systems like production servers.
Note 2: This has the potential for adverse consequences given both the forced
interaction between elements that are under the control of the Telco and those that are
not (being the external user). Further, a poorly designed, implemented, and managed
network infrastructure could cause outages or other actual damages.
Note 3: Some members accurately indicated that “is not typically deployed in the
Page 21 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
communications infrastructure” but since the Working Group mandate covers enterprise
systems weaknesses as well as infrastructure weaknesses, and because wireless
technology is widely used in the enterprise setting, the answer to this question was
“Yes.”
Note 4: We have seen where scanning software has disrupted some systems and had
to either cease scanning those systems or work with the vendor to fix their equipment to
allow scanning. Running any type of automated vulnerability scanning tools against all
the communications networks/systems on a weekly or daily basis is not practical. Some
Telco systems already have their automated diagnostics that are run regularly and
traffic processing and billing take priority.
Note 5: Although this is basic blocking and tackling for security generalists, this is
operationally difficult in a communications environment. The implementation,
measurement, and testing outlined is complex to implement.
Note 6: To apply Critical Control 3 in the communications infrastructure, recommend
that the title of #3 be changed to encompass all devices that can be accessed or
administered directly or indirectly using any Internet communications Protocol, or more
generically, any Remote Access method. Such a change will also require changes in
the body of #3, and may affect other Critical Controls. The reason is “Because of the
nature of the equipment found in a communications network and its unique position, a
successful attack into these systems is able to cause far greater harm, in terms of:
(1) Disruption and/or undesired re-direction of communications over a
geographically large area of the country or world,
(2) Loss of communication confidentiality, including data/voice eavesdropping
and/or intercept/alteration/destruction of communication and records of those
communications, both historical and current, and
(3) Because of the higher number of peering points to other networks and the
higher bandwidth carrier networks typically have, an outward-facing denial of
service or other forms of attacks launched from within a compromised
communications network can have considerable disruptive volume and speed.
In addition, to implement the sub-control of encouraging vendors to deliver systems
with secure configurations built in, recommend contractual requirements be put forth by
government agencies purchasing similar equipment. This could encourage vendors to
address a long list of existing problems. (Why? “We also consistently find that virtually
all vendors of [communications] equipment themselves are the cause of the most
potential and real security threats involving their equipment. These problems [one
common example: unchangeable logins and passwords] are embedded in the
equipment design across all components and devices of a system.”)
Note 7: Scanning processes can create a resource load on the network. They can also
create an outage situation for the target device that is being scanned for vulnerabilities.
Page 22 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Generally, outage situations can occur if the target device is already near full capacity,
if the device is running operating system software that is several iterations below
current versions, or if the scanning engine is not sufficiently tested against non-
production devices to remove specific vulnerability tests that can cause outages for the
target device. There must be sufficient review and rigorous control of scanning process
to prevent such outages. Thus, it may not be appropriate to perform scanning for all
network elements. It would depend upon the network element as determined by the
operator.
Note 8: A device may need a different configuration depending on the environment and
services it needs to be performing. Defining a specific secure configuration may
prevent a device from performing all of its services as intended. On the other hand,
another member of the Working Group wrote: This is a critical control for carriers.
Hardening of network elements is the first line of defense against compromise of
network elements. In general, this hardening must be viewed in the three major planes
of traffic going to or through network elements: data plane, control plane and
management plane.
Note 9: The impact is the possibility of disabling a critical service.
Note 10: No. Undoubtedly, there will be an occasional file or website that is blocked,
yet is business essential. These few outliers can be handled through a well publicized
exception process.
Note 11: Implementing the control Limitation and Control of Network Ports, Protocols,
and Services would extra work to enable new and needed Network Ports, Protocols,
and Services. Implementing this control could make it inconvenient as having all of
these available for use by anyone at any time. Outages could also occur during network
scanning that specifically looks for available Network Ports, Protocols, and Services.
Note 12: The application of this control would be limited in the core communications
network. This control is geared more for an Enterprise environment where you will find
personal computing devices and end users. End user devices that access OSS
networks and network elements can implement all of these controls. However, most
communication elements will not support commercial anti-malware tools as they are
proprietary operating systems and hardware.
Page 23 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Tasks 2 and 3: Identify gaps between the critical controls and the existing CSRIC 2A
best practices and recommend a superset of the most critical controls for application in
the communications industry.
Working Group 11 found substantial consistency between the CSRIC II best practices
and the 20 Controls. The Working Group members were able to identify a direct
correspondence between nearly every CSRIC II best practice that they felt stopped or
mitigated damage from known attacks, and one of the 20 Critical Controls. In other
words, most of the CSRIC II best practices that were critical were already reflected in
the 20 Controls. However, two major exceptions were discovered in which critical
CSRIC II best practices were not included in the 20 Critical Controls. One of those
exceptions affects all industries and government agencies that choose to base their
cyber security defenses on the 20 Controls; the other exception is primarily specific to
the communications industry. Those exceptions are listed and described in the
following two sections.
CSRIC II Best Practices applicable to all users of the 20 Controls
One CSRIC II best practice, entitled “Training for Security Staff,” was based on NRIC 7-
7-8100 (changed by CSRIC II) and NIST 800-53 Revision 3 control AT-3:
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers
should establish security training programs and requirements for
ensuring security staff knowledge and compliance. This training
could include professional certifications in cyber security.
Somewhat surprisingly, the 20 Controls “Security Skills” (Control 9) control was silent
on developing specific skills for security staff and had focused almost entirely on
security awareness for general users. The CSRIC II best practice was strongly
supported by the findings of the Secretary of Homeland Security’s 2012 Task Force on
Cyberskills (Table 1 on pages 7-9 of https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/
HSAC%20CyberSkills%20Report%20-%20Final.pdf ) that identified 10 security roles
that were “mission critical” and the DHS report specified the damage that is being
incurred by organizations that have not ensured they had access to people with those
mission-critical skills.
When the team responsible for updating the 20 Controls was informed of the missing
skills element, the leaders immediately sought approval from the participating
organizations. Without objection, the element was added as a sub-control of Critical
Control 9, and will be part of Version 4.4 of the 20 Controls that will be released in
March 2013.
Page 24 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
CSRIC II Best Practices unique to the communications industry
The 20 Controls did not include several CSRIC II Best Practices that are essential for
stopping or mitigating damage from attacks that take advantage of the communications
infrastructure to carry out their attacks.
One of the most damaging attacks to a communications company is distributed denial
of service (DDoS). CSRIC II best practices included a six DDoS related items that
might be combined into a single Critical Control number 21 for Communications.
A recommended superset of the most critical controls for application in the
communications industry
A superset of the 20 Controls recommended for consideration by communications
companies might include:
1. The existing 20 Controls because they stop or mitigate damage from known
attacks and the Working Group found that all of them applied to communications
companies.
2. Adding security skills development best practices, covering the mission-critical
security roles, as part of Control 9. This change is being made by the team that
maintains currency of the 20 Controls.
3. Add a Communications Control 21: Protecting Against Distributed Denial of
Service Attacks that is detailed in the DDoS-related best practices found in
CSRIC II.
The superset might well be named: 21 Critical Security Controls for the Communication
Industry.
Page 25 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Task 4: Recommend updates to the best practices list compiled by CSRIC II with a
prioritized list of critical cyber security controls that are applicable to the
communications industry.
The following list includes best practices compiled by CSRIC II that are also determined
by Working Group 11 in CSRIC III as important in stopping known attacks. Thus this list
can complement the 20 Controls by showing specific steps that may be taken in
implementing them. It should be considered a work in progress and subject to
continuous updating just as the 20 Controls are regularly updated to reflect new threat
data.
Category NRIC VII CSRIC II Best Practice CSRIC
Cross Reference/Comm
Reference ents
(New/Chang
ed/Unchange
d/ Deleted)
Wireless New Wifi Policies: Service Providers and Network Operators http://csrc.nist.gov/
should establish and enforce policies to ensure only authorized publications/nistpub
wireless devices approved by the network managing body or s/800-97/SP800-
network security are allowed on the network. Unauthorized 97.pdf
devices should be strictly forbidden.
Wireless New Mobility Handset Applications: Network Operators should limit http://www.baseline
the installation of unsigned third party applications to prevent mag.com/c/a/Mobile
outside parties from requisitioning control of your devices. -and-Wireless/10-
Best-Practices-for-
Mobile-Device-
Security/
Wireless New Mobility Handset Passwords: Service Providers and Network http://searchmobile
Operators should enforce strong passwords for mobile device computing.techtarge
access and network access. Automatically lock out access to t.com/tip/Best-
the mobile device after a predetermined number of incorrect practices-for-
passwords (typically five or more). enterprise-mobile-
device-and-
smartphone-security
Wireless New Mobility Handset VPN: Network Operators should enforce the http://searchmobile
use of virtual private network (VPN) connections between the computing.techtarge
employee mobile device and enterprise servers. t.com/tip/Best-
practices-for-
enterprise-mobile-
device-and-
smartphone-security
Wireless New Mobility Handeset Security Education: Service Providers and http://searchmobile
Network Operators should provide a program of employee computing.techtarge
education that teaches employees about mobile device threats t.com/tip/Best-
and enterprise mobile device management and security practices-for-
policies. enterprise-mobile-
device-and-
smartphone-security
Page 26 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Wireless New Mobility Handset Intrusion Detection: Network Operators, http://www.baseline
where possible, should have intrusion prevention software mag.com/c/a/Mobile
examine traffic coming through mobile devices. -and-Wireless/10-
Best-Practices-for-
Mobile-Device-
Security/
Wireless New Mobility Handset Antivirus: Network Operators, where http://www.baseline
possible, should utilize anti-virus software for the mobile mag.com/c/a/Mobile
devices. -and-Wireless/10-
Best-Practices-for-
Mobile-Device-
Security/
Wireless New Femtocell Security: Equipment Suppliers should ensure
enterprise Femtocell hardware shall be tamper-proof.
Wireless New Femtocell Security: Service Providers should ensure all
security relevant events, e.g. apparent security violations,
completion status of operations, invalid or unsuccessful logon
attempts, userid, logon time, etc are to be recorded.
Wireless New Wireless Equipment Patching: Equipment Suppliers and
Service Providers should have processes in place to ensure
that all third party software (e.g. operating system) have been
properly patched with the latest security patches and that the
system works correctly with those patches installed.
Wireless New Wireless Encryption: Equipment Suppliers in order to secure
all key exchange applications, algorithms with strengths
similar to 2,048-bit RSA or Diffie-Hillman algorithms with a
prime group of 2,048 bits should be used. Anonymous Diffie-
Hillman must not be supported.
Wireless New Wireless Authentication: Service Providers and Network
Operators should use strong certificate-based authentication
ensuring network access, digital content and software services
can be secured from unauthorized access.
Wireless New Wireless Encryption: Service Providers, Network Operators, Committee on
and Equipment Suppliers should use NSA approved encryption National Security
and authentication for all Satcom command uplinks; downlink Systems Policy
data encrypted as applicable depending on (CNSSP) 12,
sensitivity/classification. National Information
Assurance Policy for
Space Systems
Used to Support
National Security
Missions, 20 March
2007
Wireless NRIC 7-7-8106 Wireless Standards: Network Operators, Service Providers
Unchanged and Equipment Suppliers should employ operating system
hardening and up-to-date security patches for all accessible
wireless servers and wireless clients. Employ strong end user
authentication for wireless IP connections. Employ logging of
all wireless IP connections to ensure traceability back to end
user. In particular, vulnerable network and personal data in
cellular clients must be protected if the handset is stolen.
Apply good IP hygiene principles.
Wireless New Mobility Handset Standards: Network Operators should Source:
required Data Encryption for all employee mobile devices that http://www.k-
contain sensitive data. If sensitive information must reside on state.edu/its/securit
a mobile device, it should be encrypted. The decryption key y/procedures/mobile
should be entered manually; this step should not be .html
automated. A means should exist to recover encrypted data
when the decryption key is lost. Require the use of laptop
encryption and password-protection.
Page 27 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Wireless NRIC 7-7-8058 Protect Cellular Service from Anonymous Use: Service Telcordia GR-815.
Changed Providers and Network Operators should prevent theft of Cellular Standards:
service and anonymous use by enabling strong user GSM, PCS2000,
authentication as per cellular/wireless standards. Employ CDMA, 1XRTT,
fraud detection systems to detect subscriber calling anomalies UMTS, etc.
(e.g. two subscribers using same ID or system access from a
single user from widely dispersed geographic areas). In
cloning situation remove the ESN to disable user thus forcing
support contact with service provider. Migrate customers
away from analog service if possible due to cloning risk.
Wireless NRIC 7-6-8060 Protect Against Cellular Network Denial of Service: Telcordia GR-815.
Changed Service Providers & Network Operators should ensure strong Cellular Standards:
separation of data traffic from management/signaling/control GSM, PCS2000,
traffic, via firewalls. Network operators should ensure strong CDMA, 1XRTT,
cellular network backbone security by employing operator UMTS, etc.
authentication, encrypted network management traffic and
logging of security events. Network operators should also
ensure operating system hardening and up-to-date security
patches are applied for all network elements, element
management system and management systems.
Wireless NRIC 7-7-8106 Protect 3G Cellular from Cyber Security Vulnerabilities: Telcordia GR-815.
Changed Service Providers, Network Operator, and Equipment Suppliers
should employ operating system hardening and up-to-date
security patches for all accessible wireless servers and wireless
clients. Employ strong end user authentication for wireless IP
connections. Employ logging of all wireless IP connections to
ensure traceability back to end user. In particular, vulnerable
network and personal data in cellular clients must be protected
if the handset is stolen. Apply good IP hygiene principles.
IP Services New Routing Integrity: Service Providers and Network
Operators should use IPv6 BOGON lists to filter un-assigned
address blocks at Network boundaries.
IP Services New Packet Filtering: Service Providers and Network Operators NIST SP 800-119
should apply IPv6 and IPv4 anti-spoofing and firewall rules as (Draft) 6.5.2
applicable, wherever tunnel endpoints decapsulate packets.
IP Services New Packet Filtering: Service Providers and Network Operators NIST SP 800-119
should have access control lists for IPv6 that are comparable (Draft) 4.2.3
to those for IPv4, and that also block new IPv6 multicast
addresses that ought not to cross the administrative
boundary.
IP Services New Packet FIltering: Service Providers and Network Operators NIST SP 800-119
should block tunneling protocols (for example, IP protocol 41 (Draft) 2.4
and UDP port 3544) at points where they should not be used.
Tunnels can bypass firewall/perimeter security. Use static
tunnels where the need for tunneling is known in advance.
IP Services New Packet Filtering: Service Providers and Network Operators IETF RFC 4942 2.1.3
should filter internal-use IPv6 addresses at provider edge and
network perimeter.
IP Services New Packet Filtering: Service Providers and Network Operators DISA-VoIP0220
should block protocols meant for internal VoIP call control use DISA-VoIP0230
at the VoIP perimeter.
IP Services New Packet Filtering: Service Providers and Network Operators DISA-VoIP0245
should proxy remote HTTP access to the VoIP perimeter
firewalls.
IP Services New Administration: Service Providers and Network Operators DISA-VoIP0210
should block VoIP firewall administrative/management traffic
at the perimeter or Tunnel/encrypt this traffic using VPN
technology or administer/manage this traffic out of band
Page 28 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
IP Services NRIC 7-6-8055 Voice over IP (VoIP) Device Masquerades: Network PacketCable
Changed Operators and Equipment Suppliers supplied VoIP CPE devices Security
need to support authentication service and integrity services specifications.
as standards based solutions become available. Network
Operators need to turn-on and use these services in their
architectures.
IP Services NRIC 7-7-8535 Recover from Voice over IP (VoIP) Device Masquerades PacketCable
Changed or Voice over IP (VoIP) Server Compromise: If a Voice Security
over IP (VoIP) server has been compromised, Service Provider specification.
and Network Operators should disconnect the server; the
machine can be rebooted and reinitialized. Redundant servers
can take over the network load and additional servers can be
brought on-line if necessary. In the case of VoIP device
masquerading, if the attack is causing limited harm, logging
can be turned on and used for tracking down the offending
device. Law enforcement can then be involved as appropriate.
If VoIP device masquerading is causing significant harm, the
portion of the network where the attack is originating can be
isolated. Logging can then be used for tracking the offending
device.
IP Services NRIC 7-7-8056 Operational Voice over IP (VoIP) Server Hardening: NSA (VOIP and IP
Changed Network Operators should ensure that network servers have Telephony Security
authentication, integrity, and authorization controls in place in Configuration
order to prevent inappropriate use of the servers. Enable Guides), and
logging to detect inappropriate use. PacketCable
Security 2.0
Technical Report
(PKT-TR-SEC-V05-
080425).
IP Services NRIC 7-6-8057 Voice over IP (VoIP) Server Product Hardening: NSA (VOIP and IP
Changed Equipment Suppliers should provide authentication, integrity, Telephony Security
and authorization mechanisms to prevent inappropriate use of Configuration
the network servers. These capabilities must apply to all Guides), and
levels of user, general, control, and management. PacketCable
Security 2.0
Technical Report
(PKT-TR-SEC-V05-
080425).
IP Services New VOIP Standards: Service Providers and Network Operators DISA-VoIP0245
should route HTTP access from the VoIP environment through
the data environment and use HTTPS if at all possible.
NRIC 7-7-8112 Protect Management of Externally Accessible Systems:
Changed Service Providers and Network Operators should protect the
systems configuration information and management interfaces
for Web servers and other externally accessible applications,
so that it is not inadvertently made available to 3rd parties.
Techniques, at a minimum, should include least privilege for
external access, strong authentication, application platform
hardening, and system auditing.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8115 Mitigate Control Plane Protocol Vulnerabilities in
Changed Suppliers Equipment: Equipment Suppliers should provide
controls to protect network elements and their control plane
interfaces against compromise and corruption. Vendors
should make such controls and filters easy to manage and
minimal performance impacting
Network
Page 29 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8022 Remote Operations, Administration, Management and
Changed Provisioning (OAM&P) Access: Service Providers and
Network Operators should have a process by which there is a
risk assessment and formal approval for all external
connections. All such connections should be individually
identified and restricted by controls such as strong
authentication, firewalls, limited methods of connection, and
fine-grained access controls (e.g., granting access to only
specified parts of an application). The remote party's access
should be governed by contractual controls that ensure the
provider's right to monitor access, defines appropriate use of
the access, and calls for adherence to best practices by the
remote party.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8018 Hardening OAM&P User Access Control: Service http://www.atis.org
Changed Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers / - ATIS-
should, for OAM&P applications and interfaces, harden the 0300276.2008
access control capabilities of each network element or system Operations,
before deployment to the extent possible (typical steps are to Administration,
remove default accounts, change default passwords, turn on Maintenance, and
checks for password complexity, turn on password aging, turn Provisioning
on limits on failed password attempts, turn on session Security
inactivity timers, etc.). A preferred approach is to connect Requirements for
each element or system's access control mechanisms to a the Public
robust AAA server (e.g., a RADIUS or TACAS server) with Telecommunications
properly hardened access control configuration settings. Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Network
NRIC 7-7-8091 Protect Cached Security Material: Service Providers,
Unchanged Network Operators, and Equipment suppliers should evaluate
cache expiration and timeouts of security material (such as
cryptographic keys and passwords) to minimize exposure in
case of compromise. Cached security material should be
immediately deleted from the cache when the cached security
material expires. Periodic, applications-specific flushing of the
cache should also occur.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8006 Protection of Externally Accessible Network ISF CB63
Changed Applications: Service Providers and Network Operators
should protect servers supporting externally accessible
network applications by preventing the applications from
running with high-level privileges and securing interfaces
between externally accessible servers and back-office systems
through restricted services and mutual authentication.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8040 Mitigate Control Plane Protocol Vulnerabilities: Service
Changed Providers and Network Operators should implement
architectural designs to mitigate the fundamental
vulnerabilities of many control plane protocols (eBGP, DHCP,
SS7, DNS, SIP, etc): 1) Know and validate who you are
accepting information from, either by link layer controls or
higher layer authentication, if the protocol lacks
authentication, 2) Filter to only accept/propagate information
that is reasonable/expected from that network element/peer.
Network
Page 30 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-6-8093 Validate Source Addresses: Service Providers should IETF rfc3013
Unchanged validate the source address of all traffic sent from the sections 4.3 and 4.4
customer for which they provide Internet access service and and NANOF ISP
block any traffic that does not comply with expected source Resources.
addresses. Service Providers typically assign customers www.IATF.net
addresses from their own address space, or if the customer
has their own address space, the service provider can ask for
these address ranges at provisioning. (Network operators
may not be able to comply with this practice on links to
upstream/downstream providers or peering links, since the
valid source address space is not known).
Network
NRIC 7-6-8012 Secure Communications for OAM&P Traffic: To prevent http://www.atis.org
Changed unauthorized users from accessing Operations, Administration, / - ATIS-
Management, and Provisioning (OAM&P) systems, Service 0300276.2008
Providers and Network Operators should use strong Operations,
authentication for all users. To protect against tampering, Administration,
spoofing, eavesdropping, and session hijacking, Service Maintenance, and
Providers and Network Operators should use a trusted path for Provisioning
all important OAM&P communications between network Security
elements, management systems, and OAM&P staff. Examples Requirements for
of trusted paths that might adequately protect the OAM&P the Public
communications include separate private-line networks, VPNs Telecommunications
or encrypted tunnels. Any sensitive OAM&P traffic that is Network: A
mixed with customer traffic should be encrypted. OAM&P Baseline of Security
communication via TFTP and Telnet is acceptable if the Requirements for
communication path is secured by the carrier. OAM&P traffic to the Management
customer premises equipment should also be via a trusted Plane: March 2008
path. ITU - CCITT Rec.
X.700 (X.720)
Series
ITU - CCITT Rec.
X.800 Series
ITU-T Rec. X.805
ITU-T Rec. X.812
Network
Page 31 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8024 Limited Console Access: Service Providers, Network Some systems
Changed Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should not permit users differentiate a local
to log on locally to the Operation Support Systems or network account database
elements. System administrator console logon should require and network
as strong authentication as practical. account database.
Users should be
authenticated onto
the network using a
network accounts
database, not a
local accounts
database.
'http://www.atis.org
/ - ATIS-
0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Network
NRIC 7-6-8087 Use Time-Specific Access Restrictions: Service Providers
Changed and Network Operators should restrict access to specific time
periods for high risk users (e.g., vendors, contractors, etc.) for
critical assets (e.g., systems that cannot be accessed outside
of specified maintenance windows due to the impact on the
business). Assure that all system clocks are synchronized.
Network
NRIC 7-6-8078 Protect User IDs and Passwords During Network US Government and
Unchanged Transmission: Service Provider, Network Operators, and National Security
Equipment Suppliers should not send user IDs and passwords Telecommunications
in the clear, or send passwords and user IDs in the same Advisory Committee
message/packet. (NSTAC) ISP
Network Operations
Working Group.
“Short Term
Recommendations”.
Report of the ISP
Working Group for
Network
Operations/Administ
ration. May 1,
2002.
Network
Page 32 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8507 Enforce Least-Privilege-Required Access Levels During http://www.atis.org
Changed Recovery: When it is discovered that a system is running / - ATIS-
with a higher level of privilege than necessary, Service 0300276.2008
Providers and Network Operators should consider which Operations,
systems/services the affected system could be disconnected Administration,
from to minimize access and connectivity while allowing Maintenance, and
desired activities to continue; conduct a forensic analysis to Provisioning
assess the possibility of having potentially compromised data Security
and identify what may have been compromised and for how Requirements for
long it has been in a compromised state; and reconnect the Public
system to back-office with appropriate security levels Telecommunications
implemented. Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
ISF CB63
Network
NRIC 7-6-8049 Protect DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) draft-ietf-dhc-csr-
Changed Server from Poisoning: Service Providers and Network 07.txt, RFC 3397,
Operators should employ techniques to make it difficult to RFC2132, RFC1536,
send unauthorized DHCP information to customers and the RFC3118.
DHCP servers themselves. Methods can include OS
Hardening, router filters, VLAN configuration, or encrypted,
authenticated tunnels. The DHCP servers themselves must be
hardened, as well. Mission critical applications should be
assigned static addresses to protect against DHCP-based
denial of service attacks.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8042 BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) Validation: Service NSTAC ISP Working
Changed Providers and Network Operators should validate routing Group - BGP/DNS,
information to protect against global routing table disruptions. Scalable key
Avoid BGP peer spoofing or session hijacking by applying distribution
techniques such as: 1) eBGP hop-count (TTL) limit to end of mechanisms, NRIC
physical peering link, 2) MD5 session signature to mitigate V FG 4:
route update spoofing threats (keys should be changed Interoperability.
periodically where feasible). NIST SP 800-54
Border Gateway
Protocol Security
Network
New Network Connection Control: Service Providers and ISO/IEC 27002
Network Operators should ensure that access to shared (17799) [2005]
networks, including those that cross organizational
boundaries, as well as internal network and customer
management infrastructures, is restricted, as per the
Company's access control policy. These restrictions apply to
systems, applications, and users, and is enforced via a router,
firewall,or similar device allowing for rule-based traffic
filtering, thereby ensuring a logical separation of networks.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8063 Intrusion Detection/Prevention Tools (IDS/IPS): NIST SP800-94
Changed Service Providers and Network Operators should install and Guide to Intrusion
actively monitor IDS/IPS tools. Sensor placement should Detection and
focus on resources critical to the delivery of service. Prevention Systems
(IDPS)
http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/nistpub
s/800-94/SP800-
94.pdf
Network
Page 33 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-6-8043 Prevent BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) Poisoning: http://www.cymru.c
Changed Service Providers and Network Operators should use existing om/Bogons/index.ht
BGP filters to avoid propagating incorrect data. Options ml, NSTAC ISP
include: 1) Avoid route flapping DoS by implementing RIPE- Working Group -
229 to minimize the dampening risk to critical resources, 2) BGP/DNS, RIPE-
Stop malicious routing table growth due to de-aggregation by 181, "A Route-
implementing Max-Prefix Limit on peering connections, 3) Filtering Model for
Employ ISP filters to permit customers to only advertise IP Improving Global
address blocks assigned to them, 4) Avoid disruption to Internet Routing
networks that use documented special use addresses by Robustness"
ingress and egress filtering for "Martian" routes, 5) Avoid DoS 222.iops.org/Docum
caused by unauthorized route injection (particularly from ents/routing.html
compromised customers) by egress filtering (to peers) and NIST SP 800-54
ingress filtering (from customers) prefixes set to other ISPs, Border Gateway
6) Stop DoS from un-allocated route injection (via BGP table Protocol Security
expansion or latent backscatter) by filtering "bogons" (packets
with unauthorized routes), not running default route or
creating sink holes to advertise "bogons", and 7) Employ
"Murphy filter" (guarded trust and mutual suspicion) to
reinforce filtering your peer should have done.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8008 Network Architecture Isolation/Partitioning: Network ISF SB52,
Changed Operators and Service Providers should implement http://www.sans.or
architectures that partition or segment networks and g
applications using means such as firewalls, demilitarized zones ITU-T Rec. X.805
(DMZ), or virtual private networks (VPN) so that ITU-T Rec. X.812
contamination or damage to one asset does not disrupt or
destroy other assets. In particular, where feasible, it is
suggested the user traffic networks, network management
infrastructure networks, customer transaction system
networks, and enterprise communication/business operations
networks be separated and partitioned from one another.
Network
NRIC 7-6-8015 Segmenting Management Domains: For OAM&P activities http://www.atis.org
Changed and operations centers, Service Providers and Network / - ATIS-
Operators should segment administrative domains with 0300276.2008
devices such as firewalls that have restrictive rules for traffic Operations,
in both directions and that require authentication for traversal. Administration,
In particular, segment OAM&P networks from the Network Maintenance, and
Operator's or Service Provider's intranet and the Internet. Provisioning
Treat each domain as hostile to all other domains. Follow Security
industry recommended firewall policies for protecting critical Requirements for
internal assets. the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
ITU-T X.805
Network
NRIC 7-7-8025 Protection from SCADA Networks: Telecom/Datacomm Note: Service
Changed OAM&P networks for Service Providers and Network Operators providers MAY
should be isolated from other OAM&P networks, e.g., SCADA provide an offer of
networks, such as for power, water, industrial plants, 'managed' SCADA
pipelines, etc. services or
· Isolate the SCADA network from the OAM&P network connectivity to other
(segmentation) utilities. This should
· Put a highly restrictive device, such as a firewall, as a be separate from
front-end interface on the SCADA network for management the provider's
access. OAM&P network.
· Use an encrypted or a trusted path for the OAM&P ITU-T Rec. X.1051
network to communicate with the SCADA "front-end."
Network
Page 34 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8136 Protect Network/Management Infrastructure from www.cert.org/securi
Changed Unexpected File System Changes: Service Providers and ty-
Network Operators should deploy tools to detect unexpected improvement/practi
changes to file systems on Network Elements and ces/p072.html
Management Infrastructure systems where feasible and www.cert.org/securi
establish procedures for reacting to changes. Use techniques ty-
such as cryptographic hashes. improvement/practi
ces/p096.html
ITU-T Rec. X.1051
Network
NRIC 7-6-8045 Protect Interior Routing Tables: Service Providers and http://www.ietf.org/
Changed Network Operators should protect their interior routing tables rfc/rfc1321.txt
with techniques such as 1) Not allowing outsider access to
internal routing protocol and filter routes imported into the
interior tables 2) Implementing MD5 between IGP neighbors.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8525 Recovery from BGP (Border Gateway Protocol) RIPE-181, "A Route-
Changed Poisoning: If the routing table is under attack from malicious Filtering Model for
BGP updates, Service Providers and Network Operators should Improving Global
apply the same filtering methods used in NRIC BP 8043 more Internet Routing
aggressively to stop the attack. When under attack, the Robustness"
attack vector is usually known and the performance impacts of www.iops.org/Docu
the filter are less of an issue than when preventing an attack. ments/routing.html
The malicious routes will expire from the table, be replaced by
legitimate updates, or in emergencies, can be manually
deleted from the tables. Contact peering partner to coordinate
response to attack.
Network
New Protect Unattended Workstations: Service Providers and http://csrc.nist.gov/
Network Operators should have policies and enforce that publications/nistpub
unattended workstations should be protected from unathorized s/800-66-Rev1/SP-
access 1) Individual Username/Password authentication must 800-66-
be required to access resources. 2) Physical access must be Revision1.pdf
restricted to workstations. 3) Where possible idle Octave Catalog of
workstations must default to password protected screensaver Practices, Version
after an established time lapse (e.g. 15 minutes). 2.0, CMU/SEI-2001-
TR-20
(http://www.cert.or
g/archive/pdf/01tr0
20.pdf) Practice
OP1.2.4
Network
NRIC 7-7-8007 Define Security Architecture(s): Service Providers and NIST Special
Changed Network Operators should develop formal written Security Publication 800-53,
Architecture(s) and make the architecture(s) readily accessible Revision 3, Control
to systems administrators and security staff for use during Number PM-7
threat response. The Security Architecture(s) should anticipate Recommended
and be conducive to business continuity plans. Security Controls for
Federal Information
Systems
http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/nistpub
s/800-53-
Rev3/sp800-53-
rev3-final_updated-
errata_05-01-
2010.pdf
NIST Special Pub
800-12, NIST
Special Pub 800-14
Network
Page 35 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8000 Disable Unnecessary Services: Service Providers and Configuration guides
Changed Network Operators should establish a process, during for security from
design/implementation of any network/service element or NIST (800-53 Rev.
management system, to identify potentially vulnerable, 3), NSA (Security
network-accessible services (such as Network Time Protocol Configuration
(NTP), Remote Procedure Calls (RPC), Finger, Rsh-type Guides), and Center
commands, etc.) and either disable, if unneeded, or provided For Internet
additional compensating controls, such as proxy servers, Security (CIS
firewalls, or router filter lists, if such services are required for Benchmarks).
a business purpose.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8004 Harden Default Configurations: Equipment Suppliers
Changed should work closely and regularly with customers to provide
recommendations concerning existing default settings and to
identify future default settings which may introduce
vulnerabilities. Equipment Suppliers should proactively
collaborate with network operators to identify and provide
recommendations on configurable default parameters and
provide guidelines on system deployment and integration such
that initial configurations are as secure as allowed by the
technology.
Network
NRIC 7-6-8010 OAM&P Product Security Features: Equipment Suppliers http://www.atis.org
Changed should implement current industry baseline requirements for / - ATIS-
Operations, Administration, Management, and Provisioning 0300276.2008
(OAM&P) security in products -- software, network elements, Operations,
and management systems. Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Network
NRIC 7-6-8011 Request OAM&P Security Features: Service Providers and http://www.atis.org
Changed Network Operators should request products from vendors that / - ATIS-
meet current industry baseline requirements for Operations, 0300276.2008
Administration, Management, and Provisioning (OAM&P) Operations,
security. Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Network
Page 36 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8019 Hardening OSs for OAM&P: Service Providers, Network Configuration guides
Changed Operators, and Equipment Suppliers with devices equipped for security from
with operating systems used for OAM&P should have operating NIST (800-53 Rev.
system hardening procedures applied. Harding procedures 3), NSA (Security
include (a) all unnecessary services are disabled; (b) all Configuration
unnecessary communications pathways are disabled; (c) all Guides), Center For
critical security patches have been evaluated for installations Internet Security
on said systems/applications; and d) review and implement (CIS Benchmarks)
published hardening guidelines, as appropriate. Where critical 'http://www.atis.org
security patches cannot be applied, compensating controls / - ATIS-
should be implemented. 0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Network
NRIC 7-7-8024 Operations Security: Network Operators, Service Providers
Unchanged and Equipment Suppliers should not permit users to log on
locally to the Operation Support Systems or network elements.
System administrator console logon should require as strong
authentication as practical.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8063 Intrusion Detection/Prevention: Network Operators and
Unchanged Service Providers should install and actively monitor IDS/IPS
tools. Sensor placement should focus on resources critical to
the delivery of service.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8063 Intrusion Detection/Prevention: Network Operators and
Unchanged Service Providers should maintain and update IDS/IPS tools
regularly to detect current threats, exploits, and
vulnerabilities.
Network
NRIC 7-7-8073 Intrusion Detection/Prevention: Network Operators and
Unchanged Service Providers should deploy Intrusion
Detection/Prevention Tools with an initial policy that reflects
the universe of devices and services known to exist on the
monitored network. Due to the ever evolving nature of
threats, IDS/IPS tools should be tested regularly and tuned to
deliver optimum performance and reduce false positives.
Network
Page 37 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8064 Intrusion Detection/Prevention: Network Operators and
Unchanged Service Providers should generate and collect security-related
event data for critical systems (i.e. syslogs, firewall logs, IDS
alerts, remote access logs, etc.). Where practical, this data
should be transmitted to secure collectors for storage and
should be retained in accordance with a data retention policy.
A mechanism should be enabled on these systems to ensure
accurate timestamps of this data (e.g., Network Time
Protocol).
Network
NRIC 7-7-8118 DNS Distributed Denial of Service: Network Operators and
Unchanged Service Providers should provide DNS DDoS protection by
implementing protection techniques such as: 1) Rate limiting
DNS network connections 2) Provide robust DNS capacity in
excess of maximum network connection traffic 3) Have traffic
anomaly detection and response capability 4) Provide
secondary DNS for back-up 5) Deploy Intrusion Prevention
System in front of DNS.
Network
New Spam: Network Operators should block incoming email file Source: Stopping
attachments with specific extensions know to carry infections, Spam – Report of
or should filter email file attachment based on content the Task Force on
properties. Spam – May 2005IS
Network
New Spam: Network Operators should perform content analysis of Source: Anti-Spam
In-bound e-mails. Best Practices and
Technical Guidelines
Network
NRIC 7-7-8077 Compensating Control for Weak Authentication Garfinkel, Simson,
Unchanged Methods: For Service Provider and Network Operator legacy and Gene Spafford.
systems without adequate access control capabilities, access “Users and
control lists (ACLs) should be used to restrict which machines Passwords”.
can access the device and/or application. In order to provide Practical Unix &
granular authentication, a bastion host that logs user activities Internet Security,
should be used to centralize access to such devices and 2nd ed. Sebastopol,
applications, where feasible. CA: O’Reilly and
Associates, Inc.
1996. 49-69
King, Christopher
M., Curtis E. Dalton,
and T. Ertem Os
Network
New Network Access Control for Signaling: Network Operators
should ensure that signaling interface points that connect to IP
Private and Corporate networks interfaces are well hardened
and protected with firewalls that enforce strong authentication
policies.
Network
Page 38 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
New Protect Network/Management Infrastructure from Unexpected www.cert.org/securi
File System Changes: Service Providers and Network ty-
Operators should deploy tools to detect unexpected changes improvement/practi
to file systems on Network Elements and Management ces/p072.html,
Infrastructure systems where feasible and establish www.cert.org/securi
procedures for reacting to changes. Use techniques such as ty-
cryptographic hashes. improvement/practi
ces/p096.html
<br>Dependency on
NRIC BP 8548.
Related to BP 8103.
Network
People NRIC 7-7-8129 Staff Training on Technical Products and Their Controls:
Changed To remain current with the various security controls employed
by different technologies, Service Providers, Network
Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should ensure that
technical staff participate in ongoing training and remain up-
to-date on their certifications for those technologies.
People NRIC 7-7-5091 Travel Security Awareness: Network Operators, Service
Unchanged Providers and Equipment Suppliers should develop and
implement, as appropriate, travel security awareness training
and briefings before traveling internationally.
People New Customer Acceptable Use Policy: Network Operators and
Service Providers should develop an acceptable use policy for
customers of their services and enforce it.
People New Data Leakage: Service Providers and Network Operators Source:http://www.
should have and enforce disciplinary programs for employees alertboot.com/blog/
who do not follow Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Guidelines. blogs/endpoint_secu
rity/archive/2010/0
6/15/laptop-
encryption-
software-for-social-
security-
administration-
telecommuters.aspx
People NRIC 7-7-8100 Training for Security Staff: Service Providers, Network NIST Special
Changed Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should establish security Publication 800-53,
training programs and requirements for ensuring security staff Revision 3, Control
knowledge and compliance. This training could include Number AT-3
professional certifications in cyber security. Recommended
Security Controls for
Federal Information
Systems
http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/nistpub
s/800-53-
Rev3/sp800-53-
rev3-final_updated-
errata_05-01-
2010.pdf.
Page 39 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
People NRIC 7-7-8124 Conduct Organization Wide Security Awareness Training: NIST: www.nist.gov
Changed Service Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Document is SP
Suppliers should ensure staff is given awareness training on 800-50 Building an
security policies, standards, procedures, and general best Information
practices. Awareness training should also cover the threats to Technology Security
the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data including Awareness and
social engineering. Training as part of new employee Training Program,
orientation should be supplemented with regular "refreshers" October 2003
to all staff.
People NRIC 7-7-8125 Policy Acknowledgement: Service Providers, Network ISO 27002
Changed Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should ensure that Information Security
employees formally acknowledge their obligation to comply Standards - 8.1.3
with their corporate Information Security policies. Terms and
conditions of
employment
People NRIC 7-7-8092 Adopt and Enforce Acceptable Use Policy: Service Providers IETF rfc3013 section
Changed and Network Operators should adopt a customer-directed 3 and NANOG ISP
policy whereby misuse of the network would lead to measured Resources
enforcement actions up to and including termination of (http://www.nanog.
services. org/isp.html).
New Non-Repudiation: Network Operators should establish policies
and procedures to ensure that actions taken on the network
can be positively attributed to the person or entity that
initiated the action. This may include, but is not limited to
Legacy
electronic logging, access control, physical records, or tickets.
Services
New Signaling DoS Protection: Network Operators should establish
alarming thresholds for various message types to ensure that
DoS conditions are recognized. Logs should be maintained
and policies established to improve screening and alarming
thresholds for differentiating legitimate traffic from DoS
Legacy attacks.
Services
New Logging of Requested Changes: Network Operators should log
changes made to network elements and consider recording the
user login, time of day, IP address, associated authentication
token, and other pertinent information associated with each
change. Policies should be established to audit logs on a
Legacy periodic bases and update procedures as needed.
Services
NRIC 7-6-8051 Network Access Control for SS7: Network Operators ITU SS7 Standards,
Changed should ensure that SS7 signaling interface points that connect “Securing SS7
to the IP Private and Corporate networks interfaces are well Telecommunications
hardened, protected with packet filtering firewalls; and enforce Networks”,
strong authentication. Similar safeguards should be Proceedings of the
implemented for e-commerce applications to the SS7 network. 2001 IEEE
Network Operators should implement rigorous screening on Workshop on
both internal and interconnecting signaling links and should Information
investigate new, and more thorough screening capabilities. Assurance and
Operators of products built on general purpose computing Security, 5-6 June
products should proactively monitor all security issues 2001.
associated with those products and promptly apply security
fixes, as necessary. Operators should be particularly vigilant
with respect to signaling traffic delivered or carried over
Internet Protocol networks. Network Operators that do
employ the Public Internet for signaling, transport, or
maintenance communications and any maintenance access to
Network Elements should employ authentication,
authorization, accountability, integrity, and confidentiality
mechanisms (e.g., digital signature and encrypted VPN
tunneling).
Legacy
Services
Page 40 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-6-8052 SS7 Authentication: Network Operators should mitigate NIIF Guidelines for
Changed limited SS7 authentication by enabling logging for SS7 SS7 Security.
element security related alarms on SCPs and STPs, such as:
unauthorized dial up access, unauthorized logins, logging of
changes and administrative access logging. Network
operators should implement rigorous screening on both
internal and interconnecting signaling links and should
investigate new and more thorough screening capabilities.
Operators of products built on general purpose computing
products should proactively monitor all security issues
associated with those products and promptly apply security
fixes, as necessary. Operators should establish login and
access controls that establish accountability for changes to
node translations and configuration. Operators should be
particularly vigilant with respect to signaling traffic delivered
or carried over Internet Protocol networks. Network operators
that do employ the Public Internet for signaling, transport or
maintenance communications and any maintenance access to
Network Elements shall employ authentication, authorization,
accountability, integrity and confidentiality mechanisms (e.g.
digital signature and encrypted VPN tunneling). Operators
making use of dial-up connections for maintenance access to
Network Elements should employ dial-back modems with
screening lists. One-time tokens and encrypted payload VPNs
should be the minimum.
Legacy
Services
NRIC 7-6-8053 SS7 DoS Protection: Network Operators should establish
Changed thresholds for various SS7 message types to ensure that DoS
conditions are not created. Also, alarming should be
configured to monitor these types of messages to alert when
DoS conditions are noted. Rigorous screening procedures can
increase the difficulty of launching DDoS attacks. Care must
be taken to distinguish DDoS attacks from high volumes of
legitimate signaling messages. Maintain backups of signaling
Legacy element data.
Services
Identity NRIC 7-7-8019 Multi-factor Authentication: Service Providers and Network ITU-T Y.2702,
Manageme Operators should support multi-factor authentication to Authentication and
nt increase confidence in the identity of an entity. Multi-factor authorization
authentication involves validating the authenticity of the requirements
identity of a entity by verifying multiple identifiers and for NGN release 1
attributes associated with the entity. The data for multi-factor ATIS-1000030,
authentication capabilities should be organized based Authentication and
something you are (e.g., physical of behavioral characteristics Authorization
of a end user or customer's characteristic or attribute that is Requirements for
being compared such as typing patterns, voice recognition), Next Generation
something you have (e.g., a driver's license, or a security Network (NGN)
token) and something you know (e.g., a password, pin NIST SP 800-63,
number, security image). Electronic
Authentication
Guideline
Identity NRIC 7-8-8081 Enforcable Password Policy: Network Operators, Service
Manageme Unchanged Providers and Equipment Suppliers should develop an
nt enforceable password policy, which considers different types of
users, requiring users to protect, as applicable, either (a) the
passwords they are given/create or (b) their credentials for
two-factor authentication.
Page 41 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Identity NRIC 7-7-8085 Expiration of Digital Certificates: Service Providers, McClure, Stuart,
Manageme Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers, certificates Joel Scambray,
nt should have a limited period of validity, dependent upon the George Kurtz.
risk to the system, and the value of the asset. "Dial-Up, PBX,
If there are existing certificates with unlimited validity periods, Voicemail, and VPN
and it is impractical to replace certificates, consider the Hacking". Hacking
addition of passwords that are required to be changed on a Exposed, Network
periodic basis. Security Secrets and
Solutions, 4th
Edition. Berkley,
CA. The McGraw-
Hill Companies.
2003. 341-389.
Identity NRIC 7-7-8120 Revocation of Digital Certificates: Service Providers,
Manageme Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should use
nt equipment and products that support a central revocation list
and revoke certificates that are suspected of having been
compromised.
Identity NRIC 7-7-8080 Change Passwords on a Periodic Basis: Service Providers, Garfinkel, Simson,
Manageme Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should change and Gene Spafford.
nt passwords on a periodic basis implementing a policy which “Users and
considers different types of users and how often passwords Passwords”.
should be changed. Perform regular audits on passwords, Practical Unix &
including privileged passwords, on system and network Internet Security,
devices. If available, activate features across the user base 2nd ed. Sebastopol,
which force password changes. CA: O’Reilly and
Associates, Inc.
1996. 49-69
US Government and
National Security
Telecommunications
Advisory Committee
(NSTAC) ISP
Network Operations
Working Group.
“Short Term
Recommendations”.
Report of the ISP
Working Group for
Network
Operations/Administ
ration. May 1,
2002.
'http://www.atis.org
/ - ATIS-
0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Page 42 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Identity NRIC 7-7-8081 Protect Authentication Methods: Service Providers, Garfinkel, Simson,
Manageme Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should develop and Gene Spafford.
nt an enforceable password policy, which considers different “Users and
types of users, requiring users to protect, as applicable, either Passwords”.
(a) the passwords they are given/create or (b) their Practical Unix &
credentials for two-factor authentication. Internet Security,
2nd ed. Sebastopol,
CA: O’Reilly and
Associates, Inc.
1996. 49-69
US Government and
National Security
Telecommunications
Advisory Committee
(NSTAC) Network
Security Information
Exchange (NSIE).
“Administration of
Static Passwords
and User Ids”.
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, &
Provisioning
(OAM&P) Security
Requirements for
Public
Telecommunications
Network. Draft 2.0,
August 2002.
'http://www.atis.org
/ - ATIS-
0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Identity New Password Management Policy: Service Providers and NIST SP800-118
Manageme Network Operators should define, implement, and maintain Guide to Enterprise
nt password management policies as well as the documented Password
process to reduce the risk of compromise of password-based Management
systems. http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/drafts/8
00-118/draft-sp800-
118.pdf
Page 43 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Identity NRIC 7-6-8014 OAM&P Privilege Levels: For OAM&P systems, Service http://www.atis.org
Manageme Changed Providers and Network Operators should use element and / - ATIS-
nt system features that provide "least-privilege" for each OAM&P 0300276.2008
user to accomplish required tasks using role-based access Operations,
controls where possible. Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Identity NRIC 7-6-8013 Controls for Operations, Administration, Management, Department of
Manageme Changed and Provisioning (OAM&P) Management Actions: Defense
nt Service Providers and Network Operators should authenticate, Telecommunications
authorize, attribute, and log all management actions on critical and Defense
infrastructure elements and management systems. This Switched Network
especially applies to management actions involving security Secuirty Technical
resources such as passwords, encryption keys, access control Implementation
lists, time-out values, etc. Guide (Version 2,
Release 3).
'http://www.atis.org
/ - ATIS-
0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Page 44 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Identity NRIC 7-7-8113 Limited Local Logon: Service Providers, Network Operators, Department of
Manageme Changed and Equipment Suppliers should not permit local logon of Defense
nt users other than the system administrator. Local logon of a Telecommunications
system administrator should be used only for troubleshooting and Defense
or maintenance purposes. Some systems differentiate a local Switched Network
account database and network-accessible, centralized account Secuirty Technical
database. Users should be authenticated via a network- Implementation
accessible, centralized account database, not a local accounts Guide (Version 2,
database. Release 3).
'http://www.atis.org
/ - ATIS-
0300276.2008
Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Encryption NRIC 7-7-8001 Strong Encryption Algorithms and Keys: Service Providers, Reference:
Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should use http://www.atis.org
industry-accepted published guidelines specifying algorithms / - T1 276-2008
and key lengths for all uses of encryption, such as 3DES or Operations,
AES. Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A Baseline
of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: July, 2003;
Dependency on
NRIC BP 8503
Encryption NRIC 7-6-8094 Strong Encryption for Customer Clients: Service Providers http://www.security
Unchanged should implement customer client software that uses the forum.org and
strongest permissible encryption appropriate to the asset http://www.sans.or
being protected. g/resources/;
Schneier, Bruce.
1996. Applied
Cryptography.
2d.ed. John Wiley &
Sons. See also NRIC
BP 5162.
Encryption New Protect Sensitive Data in Transit for Externally Accessible Related to NRIC BP
Applications: Service Providers and Network Operators should 8006, 8112
encrypt sensitive data from web servers, and other externally
accessible applications, while it is in transit over any networks
they do not physically control.
Page 45 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Encryption NRIC 7-7-8001 Strong Encryption Algorithms and Keys: Service http://www.atis.org
Changed Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers / - ATIS-
should use industry-accepted algorithms and key lengths for 0300276.2008
all uses of encryption, such as 3DES or AES. Operations,
Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: March 2008
Encryption NRIC 7-7-8111 Protect Sensitive Data in Transit for Externally
Changed Accessible Applications: Service Providers and Network
Operators should encrypt sensitive data from web servers, and
other externally accessible applications, while it is in transit
over any networks they do not physically control.
Encryption NRIC 7-7-8026 Distribution of Encryption Keys: When Service Providers, NIST SP800-57
Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers use an Recommendation for
encryption technology in the securing of network equipment key management
and transmission facilities, cryptographic keys must be http://csrc.nist.gov/
distributed using a secure protocol that: a) Ensures the publications/nistpub
authenticity of the sender and recipient, b) Does not depend s/800-57/sp800-57-
upon secure transmission facilities, and c) Cannot be emulated Part1-
by a non-trusted source. revised2_Mar08-
2007.pdf
Vulnerabilit New Vulnerability Assessment Policies: Service providers, Sans Institute,
y network operators, and equipment vendors should use custom "Vulnerability
Manageme policies created by OS, device, or by industry standard (SANS Management: Tools,
nt Top 20, Windows Top 10 Vulnerabilities, OWASP Top 10) and Challenges and Best
specific to your environment. Organizations should identify Practices." 2003.
what scanning methods and operating procedures are best for Pg. 11, 12.
their company, and document how they would proceed in a
standard operating procedure.
Vulnerabilit New Vulnerability Reporting and Remediation: Service Sans Institute,
y providers, network operators, and equipment vendors should "Vulnerability
Manageme focus on the highest risk vulnerabilities by ranking them by Management: Tools,
nt the vulnerability risk rating. Challenges and Best
Practices." 2003.
Pg. 12, 14.
Vulnerabilit NRIC 7-6-8023 Scanning Operations, Administration, Management and
y Unchanged Provisioning (OAM&P) Infrastructure: Service Providers
Manageme and Network Operators should regularly scan infrastructure for
nt vulnerabilities/exploitable conditions. Operators should
understand the operating systems and applications deployed
on their network and keep abreast of vulnerabilities, exploits,
and patches.
Page 46 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Vulnerabilit 7-7-8000 Disable Unnecessary Services: Service Providers and Configuration guides
y Unchanged Network Operators should establish a process, during for security from
Manageme design/implementation of any network/service element or NIST, US-CERT,
nt management system, to identify potentially vulnerable, NSA, SANS,
network-accessible services (such as Network Time Protocol vendors, etc.Related
(NTP), Remote Procedure Calls (RPC), Finger, Rsh-type to NRIC BP 8502,
commands, etc.) and either disable, if unneeded, or provided 8505
additional external network protection, such as proxy servers,
firewalls, or router filter lists, if such services are required for
a business purpose.
Vulnerabilit 7-7-8004 Harden Default Configurations: Equipment Suppliers Dependency on
y Unchanged should work closely and regularly with US-CERT/NCCIC, and NRIC BP 8505.
Manageme customers to provide recommendations concerning existing Supersedes NRIC BP
nt default settings and to identify future default settings which 8002
may introduce vulnerabilities. Equipment Suppliers should
proactively collaborate with network operators to identify and
provide recommendations on configurable default parameters
and provide guidelines on system deployment and integration
such that initial configurations are as secure as allowed by the
technology.
Vulnerabilit 7-7-8019 Hardening OSs for OAM&P: Service Providers, Network Configuration guides
y Unchanged Operators, and Equipment Suppliers with devices equipped for security from
Manageme with operating systems used for OAM&P should have operating NIST, US-CERT,
nt system hardening procedures applied. Hardening procedures NSA, SANS,
include (a) all unnecessary services are disabled; (b) all vendors,
unnecessary communications pathways are disabled; (c) all http://www.atis.org
critical security patches have been evaluated for installations / - T1 276-2003
on said systems/applications; and d) review and implement Operations,
published hardening guidelines, as appropriate. Where critical Administration,
security patches cannot be applied, compensating controls Maintenance, and
should be implemented. Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A Baseline
of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: July, 2003
Dependency on
NRIC BP 8004
Vulnerabilit 7-7-8106 Protect Wireless Networks from Cyber Security IPSec. Telcordia GR-
y Changed to be Vulnerabilities: Service Providers, Network Operator, and 815. Cellular
Manageme more Equipment Suppliers should employ operating system Standards: GSM,
nt comprehensive hardening and up-to-date security patches for all accessible PCS2000, CDMA,
. wireless servers and wireless clients. Employ strong end user 1XRTT, UMTS, etc.
authentication for wireless IP connections. Employ logging of Dependency on
all wireless IP connections to ensure traceability back to end NRIC BP 5018.
user. Employ up-to-date encryption capabilities available with NIST SP 800-40
the devices. In particular, vulnerable network and personal v2.0 Creating a
data in cellular clients must be protected if the handset is Patch and
stolen. Vulnerability
Management
Program
Page 47 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
Vulnerabilit NRIC 7-7-8103 Protect Network/Management Infrastructure from NIST SP800-83
y Changed Malware: Service Providers and Network Operators should Guide to malware
Manageme deploy malware protection tools where feasible, establish incident prevention
nt processes to keep signatures current, and establish and handling
procedures for reacting to an infection. http://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/nistpub
s/800-83/SP800-
83.pdf
Note: Service
providers may
choose to offer virus
protection as a
value-added service
to their customers
as part of a service
offering, but that is
not required by this
Best Practice.
Vulnerabilit NRIC 7-6-8039 Patch/Fix Verification: Service Providers and Network Configuration guide
y Changed Operators should perform a verification process to ensure that for security from
Manageme patches/fixes are actually applied as directed throughout the NIST (800-53 Rev.
nt organization. Exceptions should be reviewed and the proper 3).
patches/fixes actually applied.
Vulnerabilit New Version Control Systems: Service providers, network NIST Special
y operators, and equipment suppliers should automated (where Publication 800-40,
Manageme possible) Patch Management to quickly deploy patches for Creating a Patch
nt known vulnerabilites and Vulnerability
Management
Program - 2.1
Recommended
Process
Vulnerabilit 7-6-8032 Patching Practices: Service Providers, Network Operators, NIST SP 800-40
y Changed to and Equipment Suppliers should design and deploy a well- v2.0
Manageme reference defined patching process especially for critical OAM&P http://www.atis.org
nt software systems. These processes should be based on the Software / - T1 276-2003
patching Patching Policy. Operations,
policy. Administration,
Maintenance, and
Provisioning
Security
Requirements for
the Public
Telecommunications
Network: A
Baseline of Security
Requirements for
the Management
Plane: July, 2003
Vulnerabilit New General Patching: Service providers and network operators Source:
y should establish and implement procedures to ensure that all http://www.k-
Manageme security patches and updates relevant to the device or state.edu/its/securit
nt installed applications are promptly applied. The patching y/procedures/mobile
process should be automated whenever possible. The system .html#summary
should be rebooted immediately after patching if required for
the patch to take effect.
Page 48 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8062 IR (Incident Response) Team: Service Providers and IETF RFC2350,
Unchanged Network Operators should identify and train a Computer CMU/SEI-98-HB-
Security Incident Response (CSIRT) Team. This team should 001.
have access to the CSO (or functional equivalent) and should
be empowered by senior management. The team should
include security, networking, and system administration
specialists but have the ability to augment itself with expertise
from any division of the organization. Organizations that
establish part-time CSIRTs should ensure representatives are
detailed to the team for a suitable period of time bearing in
mind both the costs and benefits of rotating staff through a
specialized team.
Incident
Response
NRIC 7-7-8068 Incident Response Communications Plan: Service Alternate broadband
Changed Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers communication path
should develop and practice a communications plan as part of for coordination and
the broader Incident response plan. The communications plan management.
should identify key players and include as many of the
following items as appropriate for your organization: contact
names, business telephone numbers, home tel. numbers,
pager numbers, fax numbers, cell phone numbers, home
addresses, internet addresses, permanent bridge numbers,
etc. Notification plans should be developed prior to an
event/incident happening where necessary. The plan should
also include alternate communications channels such as alpha
pagers, internet, satellite phones, VOIP, private lines,
blackberries, etc. The value of any alternate communications
method needs to be balanced against the security and
information loss risks introduced.
Incident
Response
NRIC 7-7-8085 Sharing Information with Law Enforcement: Service
Changed Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers
should establish a process for releasing information to
members of the law enforcement and intelligence communities
and identify a single Point of Contact (POC) for
Incident coordination/referral activities.
Response
NRIC 7-7-8130 Staff Trained on Incident Reporting: Service Providers, ISO 27002
Changed Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should provide Information Security
procedures and training to staff on the reporting of security Standards - 13.1.1
incidents, weaknesses, and suspicious events. Reporting
information security
Incident events
Response
NRIC 7-6-8061 IR (Incident Response) Procedures: Service Providers IETF RFC2350, US-
Changed and Network Operators should establish a set of standards and CERT.
procedures for dealing with computer security events. These
procedures can and should be part of the overall business
continuity/disaster recovery plan. Where possible, the
procedures should be exercised periodically and revised as
needed. Procedures should cover likely threats to those
elements of the infrastructure which are critical to service
Incident delivery/business continuity. See appendix X and Y.
Response
NRIC 7-7-8557 Recovery from Lack of Security Reporting Contacts: If
Changed an abuse incident occurs without reporting contacts in place,
Service Providers and Network Operators should: 1) Ensure
that the public-facing support staff is knowledgeable of how
both to report incidents internally and to respond to outside
inquiries. 2) Ensure public facing support staff (i.e,
call/response center staff) understands the security referral
and escalation procedures. 3) Disseminate security contacts to
industry groups/coordination bodies where appropriate. 4)
Incident Create e-mail IDs per rfc2142 and disseminate.
Response
Page 49 of 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 11
Final Report March, 2013
NRIC 7-7-8070 Abuse Reporting: Service Providers and Network Operators
Changed should have Abuse Policies and processes posted for
customers (and others), instructing them where and how to
report instances of service abuse. Service Providers, Network
Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should support the email
IDs listed in rfc 2142 “MAILBOX NAMES FOR COMMON
Incident SERVICES, ROLES AND FUNCTIONS.”
Response
NRIC 7-7-8074 Denial of Service (DoS) Attack - Target: Where possible,
Changed Service Provider and Network Operator networks and
Equipment Supplier equipment should be designed to survive
significant increases in both packet count and bandwidth
utilization. Infrastructure supporting mission critical services
should be designed for significant increases in traffic volume
and must include network devices capable of filtering and/or
rate limiting traffic. Network engineers must understand the
capabilities of the devices and how to employ them to
maximum effect. Wherever practical, mission critical systems
should be deployed in clustered configuration allowing for load
balancing of excess traffic and protected by a purpose built
DoS/DDoS protection device. Operators of critical
infrastructure should deploy DoS survivable hardware and
software whenever possible.
Incident
Response
NRIC 7-7-8118 Protect Against DNS (Domain Name System) Distributed RFC-2870, ISO/IEC
Changed Denial of Service: Service Providers and Network Operators 15408, ISO
should provide DNS DDoS protection by implementing 17799,US-CERT
protection techniques such as: 1) Rate limiting DNS network "Securing an
connections 2) Provide robust DNS capacity in excess of Internet Name
maximum network connection traffic 3) Have traffic anomaly Server"
detection and response capability 4) Provide secondary DNS (http://www.cert.or
for back-up 5) Deploy Intrusion Prevention System in front of g/archive/pdf/dns.p
Incident DNS. df)
Response
NRIC 7-7-8064 Security-Related Data Collection: Service Providers and
Changed Network Operators should generate and collect security-
related event data for critical systems (i.e., syslogs, firewall
logs, IDS alerts, remote access logs, etc.). Where practical,
this data should be transmitted to secure collectors for storage
and should be retained in accordance with a data retention
policy. A mechanism should be enabled on these systems to
ensure accurate timestamps of this data (e.g., Network Time
Incident Protocol).
Response
NRIC 7-7-8510 Recover from Compromise of Sensitive Information FIPS 140-2, PUB
Unchanged Stored on Network Systems/Elements: When 46-3, PUB 74, PUB
compromise or trust violations occur, Service Providers, 81, PUB 171, PUB
Network Operators and Equipment Providers should conduct a 180-1, PUB 197,
forensic analysis to determine the extent of compromise, ANSI X9.9, X9.52,
revoke compromised keys, and establish new crypto keys as X9.17
Incident soon as possible, and review crypto procedures to re-establish
Response trust.
Page 50 of 50
