  
Page 2 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  The United States International Cyberspace  
 & Digital Policy Strategy  
Towards an Innovative, Secure, and Rights -Respecting 
Digital Future   Page 3 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Table of Contents  
The United States International Cyberspace  & Digital Policy Strategy  ................................ .... 2 
Table of Contents  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  3 
Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  6 
The Digital World: Opportunities and  Challenges  ................................ .............................  10 
Cyber Attacks and National Security Threats ................................ ................................ .........  12 
Competing Internet Norms  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 14 
Threats to Internet and Digital Freedom  ................................ ................................ ...............  15 
Challenges of the Digital Economy  ................................ ................................ ........................  16 
The Future of AI Technologies Governance  ................................ ................................ ...........  17 
Working with the Private Sector and Civil Society  ................................ ................................  18 
Building Digital Solidarity  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 20 
ACTION AREA 1: Promote, Build, and Maintain an Open, Inclusive,  Secure, and Resilient 
Digital Ecosystem  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  21 
ACTION AREA 2: Align Rights -Respecting Approaches to Digital and Data Governance with 
International Partners  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  29 
ACTION AREA 3: Advance Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace and Counter Threats to 
Cyberspace and Critical Infrastructure by Building Coalitions and Engaging Partners  .........  41 
ACTION AREA 4: Strengthen and Build International Partner Digital  Policy and Cyber 
Capacity  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 51 
Conclusion  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  59 Page 4 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy   
  Page 5 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  U.S. Department of State  
May 6 , 2024  
We are in a pivotal period of international relations, characterized by acute competition 
between nations, and shared global challenges like climate change, food and health security, 
and inclusive economic growth.  
Technology will play an increasingly critical role in addressing these challenges. That is why at 
the State Department we have prioritized building capacity and expertise in cyber, digital, and 
emerging technology issues as part of our broader efforts to m odernize diplomacy and ensure 
U.S. foreign policy delivers on the issues that matter most to the lives and livelihoods of the 
American people. As a key milestone in this work, I am pleased to share here the Department’s 
International Cyberspace and Digital  Policy Strategy.  
Central to our strategy is the effort to build digital solidarity – working together to offer mutual 
assistance to the victims of malicious cyber activity and other digital harms; assist partners – 
especially emerging economies – in deploying safe, secure,  resilient, and sustainable 
technologies to advance their development goals; and builds strong and inclusive innovation 
economies that can shape our economic and technological future. We are rallying coalitions of 
governments, businesses, and civil society  to shape the digital revolution at every level of the 
technology “stack” – from building subsea cables and telecommunication networks, to 
deploying cloud services and trustworthy artificial intelligence, to promoting rights -respecting 
data governance and norms of responsible state behavior.  
The United States will work with any country or actor that is committed to developing and 
deploy ing technology that is open, safe, and secure, that promotes inclusive growth, that 
fosters resilient and democratic societies, and that empowers all people.  
 
Page 6 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Introduction  
The United States seeks to work with allies, partners, and stakeholders across the globe to 
shape the design, development, governance, and use of cyberspace and digital technologies to 
advance economic prosperity and inclusion; enhance security and combat cybercrime; promote 
and protect the exercise of human rights, democracy, and the rule of the law; and address 
transnational challenges. The United States believes in the critical role that the responsible uses 
of digital technologies and interconnected net works play in empowering people, and that an 
open, interoperable, secure, and reliable Internet enables new solutions to global challenges. 
Autocratic states and other actors, however, have used cyber and digital tools to threaten 
international peace and s tability, harm others, exert malign influence, and undermine the 
exercise of human rights. An innovative, rights -respecting international cyberspace and digital 
technology policy strategy is foundational to U.S. strategic, security, economic, and foreign 
policy interests.  
Leadership in cyberspace, the digital economy, and emerging digital technologies is central to 
advancing the U.S. vision set forth in the October 2022 National Security Strategy (NSS) of a 
“free, open, secure, and prosperous world.” As the lead foreign pol icy agency for the United 
States, the Department of State is advancing the 2023 National Cybersecurity Strategy (NCS) 
and its objectives of forging international partnerships to build an open, resilient, defensible, 
and rights -respecting digital ecosystem.  
It is also strengthening the Strategy’s dual approach of : 
1) rebalancing responsibility for defending cyberspace onto the government and private 
sector organizations that are the most capable and best positioned to reduce risks and of  
2) realigning incentives to favor long term investment in cybersecurity through diplomacy, 
partnerships, and information -sharing. This strategy will be complemented by the U.S. 
Agency for International Development’s (USAID) forthcoming Digital Policy.  
To advance the NSS and NCS, the Department of State, working with other federal agencies, has 
developed an international cyberspace and digital policy strategy focused on building broad Page 7 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  digital solidarity through three guiding principles and four areas of action to be prioritized over 
the next three to five years.  
Digital solidarity is a willingness to work together on shared goals, to help partners build 
capacity, and to provide mutual support.1  Digital solidarity recognizes that all who use digital 
technologies in a rights -respecting manner are more secure, resilient, self -determining, and 
prosperous when we work together to shape the international environment and innovate at the 
technological edge. Central to the tenets of digital solidarity are efforts to support allies and 
partners, especially emerging economies, to fully seize the opportunities presented by new 
technologies and sustainably pursue their economic and development goals. Digital  solidarity 
aligns U.S. national interests with those of our international partners through compatible 
approaches to technology governance, sustains strong partnerships with civil society and the 
private sector, and embraces cybersecurity resilience built on a diversity of products and 
services made by trusted technology vendors. It highlights the mutual support that the United 
States and its partners offer one another to counter and respond to malicious cyber operations, 
cybercrime, and other digital harms , and promotes cooperative efforts among states and civic 
actors to defend and advance human rights. In addition, the concept of digital solidarity rests on 
efforts to build digital and cyber capacity so that partners are not only better able to build a 
defensible and resilient digital ecosystem over the long term but are also able to respond and 
recover quickly when incidents that threaten security, safety, and rights happen. The actions 
and efforts of this strategy are intended to demonstrate and build di gital solidarity with partners 
across the globe.  
The Department of State, with interagency partners,  will build digital solidarity through four 
areas of action, fundamentally supported by three principles:  
• First , the Department of State will pursue an affirmative vision for cyberspace and 
digital technologies focused on delivering the benefits of technology and grounded in 
 
1The idea of digital solidarity was first promoted by Pablo Chavez, “ Toward Digital Solidarity,” Lawfare, June 28,  
2022  Page 8 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  international commitments and international law, including international human rights 
law. The United States is committed to working with allies and partners toward a future 
in which people around the world use digital technologies safely to seek, receive,  and 
impart information and ideas online as they participate in free, open, and informed 
societies; access educational and economic opportunities in order to drive inclusive 
economic growth; and reliably receive critical services and information from their  
governments.  
• Second , the Department of State will integrate cybersecurity, sustainable development, 
and technological innovation throughout our approach. Cybersecurity, data security, 
and cyber -resilience are prerequisites for and enablers of economic growth and healthy 
civic spaces where citizens can exercise their rights; countries cannot build and support 
an innovative digital ecosystem that benefits everyone without first securing it.  
• Third , the Department of State will implement a comprehensive policy approach that 
uses the appropriate tools of diplomacy and international statecraft across the entire 
digital ecosystem. This ecosystem includes but is not limited to hardware, software, 
protoc ols, technical standards, providers, operators, users, and supply chains spanning 
telecommunication networks, undersea cables, cloud computing, data centers, and 
satellite network infrastructure, operational technologies, applications, web platforms, 
and consumer technologies as well as Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI) 
and other critical and emerging technologies . 
In line with these three principles, the Department of State will build digital solidarity through 
four areas of action, which flow from creating and governing digital ecosystems to defending 
against malicious actions and delivering assistance and building  resilience:  
(1) Promote, build, and maintain an open, inclusive, secure, and resilient digital ecosystem;  
(2) Align rights -respecting approaches to digital and data governance with international 
partners;  Page 9 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  (3) Advance responsible state behavior in cyberspace, and counter threats to cyberspace 
and critical infrastructure by building coalitions and engaging partners;  
(4) Strengthen and build international partner digital and cyber capacity.  
The Department of State will reinforce efforts to forge digital solidarity by its proactive 
participation in international, multilateral, and multistakeholder bodies where obligations, 
norms, standards, and principles are developed that impact cyberspace, digital, Internet, and 
technology issues. While progress in these venues can be slow and incremental – frequently as 
a function of their objectives —but a lack of U.S. leadership in international fora may allow 
adversaries to fill the void and shape the fut ure of technology to the detriment of U.S. interests 
and values.  
Nearly all foreign policy issues – from international security to democracy and human rights to 
global health and climate change – will be shaped by today’s investments in cyberspace and 
digital technology diplomacy. The Department of State will lead the i nteragency process to set, 
coordinate, and integrate cyber and digital technology diplomacy efforts to advance U.S. 
national interests and values over the next decade and beyond. The efficacy of U.S. efforts and 
related messaging, however, depends in part on consistency and action at home, both in policy 
and on execution. For example, U.S. technology companies are the leaders in the first wave of 
digitalization and are now pushing the innovative edge on AI systems. The United States, 
therefore, should be a leader in promoting accountability for technology platforms. We need to 
help lead the responsible design, development, governance, and use of the next wave of 
technologies in line with democratic values and respect for human rights.  
The United States has great strengths that serve us in shaping the future of digital technologies: 
strong alliances and partnerships; the world’s most innovative technology companies; a 
transparent, inclusive, and enabling policy environment; and robust an d engaged civil society 
and technical communities. The United States is mobilizing these resources to implement this 
affirmative and proactive international cyberspace and digital strategy.  Page 10 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  The Digital World: Opportunities and  
Challenges  
 
Figure 1. Abstract representation of a digital, connected world.  Adobe Stock photo.  
Digital technologies have revolutionized how we live, work, and learn. They, along with 
expanded connectivity, not only power economic growth but also facilitate the exercise of 
human rights and improve access to education, financial, and social services. Digital 
technologies have created new markets and opportunities and have enabled businesses to 
reach a vast customer base beyond their country’s borders. New digital tools have energized 
civic and political engagement, democratized information and knowledg e, been used to hold 
governments and companies accountable, and increased the transparency, efficiency, and 
responsiveness of public services.  
Looking ahead, these technologies can unlock unparalleled opportunities to address some of 
the most pressing global challenges, including climate change, economic and social inequality, 
and health crises. By harnessing the power of data analytics, AI, and real-time connectivity, we 
can create smarter, more sustainable cities, improve agricultural yields using fewer resources, 
and make healthcare accessible to even the most remote communities. These technologies 
Page 11 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  enable the development of green energy solutions, fostering a transition towards cleaner and 
less expensive energy. Advances in data collection, modeling, simulation, and analysis will allow 
scientists to accelerate research and discovery and identify patt erns invisible to humans alone, 
catalyzing rapid and unexpected breakthroughs. By connecting people and information like 
never before, digital technologies can foster a more inclusive, equitable world where 
opportunities for prosperity and well -being are a bundant for all.  
At the same time, significant harms have accompanied the rapid expansion and evolution of 
digital technologies. The geopolitics of cyberspace are competitive and complex. Malicious state 
and non -state actors have developed the capabilities and demonstrated  the intent to place 
critical infrastructure, national critical functions, and even individual citizens at risk. 
Authoritarian states are promoting competing forms of technology governance that use mass 
surveillance, privacy -invasive data collection practi ces, and online censorship tools that threaten 
the open, interoperable, secure, and reliable Internet. Technology provides new vectors and 
tools for crime, and the dramatic spread of personal information online has expanded the 
threat environment. The prol iferation and misuse of commercial spyware is a threat to national 
security, targeting U.S. officials abroad; commercial spyware has also been used to, target and 
intimidate perceived opponents, facilitate efforts to curb dissent, and thus undermine 
democr atic values. Journalists, activists, educators, researchers, women and girls, and 
marginalized groups are often the victims of unlawful surveillance, online harassment, and 
abuse. Countries and technology platforms each have a role to play in mitigating al gorithmic 
bias and information manipulation, as well as violent extremist messaging, child sexual abuse 
material (CSAM), technology -facilitated gender -based violence, and other harmful content.  
These challenges are pressing and high stakes. Innovation, partnerships, collaboration, coalition 
building, information sharing, mutual support, assistance, and the other tools of diplomacy are 
essential to ensuring that digital technologies defend and adv ance individual freedom and 
promote economic prosperity.  Page 12 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Cyber Attacks and National Security Threats  
Adversarial cyber campaigns can cumulatively produce strategic loss for the United States and 
its allies, and they increasingly put the development goals of emerging economies at risk. Cyber 
threats continue to intensify in both frequency and severity, wit h increased risks of escalatory or 
uncontrolled cyber activity. State actor and non -state actors, including criminals, terrorists, and 
violent extremists, have tremendous incentives to invest in and exploit digital technologies to 
threaten our and other’s national interests.  
The People’s Republic of China (PRC) presents the broadest, most active, and most persistent 
cyber threat to government and private sector networks in the United States. Beijing has 
mounted cyber espionage operations against government, commercial, and civ il society actors 
and has increased its ability to carry out destructive and disruptive cyberattacks. The PRC is 
capable of launching cyberattacks that could disrupt oil and gas pipelines, rail systems, and 
other critical infrastructure services within the  United States or its allies and partners. Attempts 
to compromise critical infrastructure by PRC actors are designed in part to pre -position 
themselves to be able to disrupt or destroy critical infrastructure in the event of a conflict —
either to either pre vent the United States from being able to project power into Asia, or to 
affect our decision -making during a crisis by instigating societal chaos inside the United States. 
Both state -sponsored activity and that of PRC -linked actors are part of the PRC cybe r approach.  
A persistent cyber threat, the Russian government is refining its cyber espionage, cyberattack, 
influence, and information manipulation capabilities to threaten other states and to weaken 
U.S. alliances and partnerships. Russia continues to provide safe ha ven to transnational 
cybercriminal actors, such as disruptive ransomware gangs. Russia’s cyberattacks in support of 
its 2022 unprovoked invasion of Ukraine were intended to destabilize the Ukrainian state and 
military and have resulted in spillover effects  onto civilian critical infrastructure in other 
European countries. As the war continues, Russian government and Russian government -
aligned cyber actors have targeted Ukraine with cyber operations against the public and private 
sectors, information manipul ation and online influence operations, and attempts to divert and 
censor Ukrainians’ access to the Internet. Russia appears particularly focused on improving its Page 13 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  ability to target critical infrastructure in the United States to demonstrate its ability to damage 
infrastructure during a crisis.  
The governments of the Democratic People’s Republic of North Korea (DPRK) and Iran have both 
increased the scale of their malicious cyber activities. Facing multiple rounds of international 
sanctions, the DPRK evades controls through cybercrime and the the ft of cryptocurrencies. 
DPRK hackers continue to gather intelligence on military technology targets as well as academia 
and think tanks. In addition, the DPRK dispatches thousands of skilled IT workers around the 
world to generate fraudulent revenue that u ltimately contributes to its weapons of mass 
destruction and ballistic missile programs despite U.S. and UN sanctions.  
Iran’s growing expertise and willingness to conduct cyber operations threaten the security of 
networks and data globally. Iran’s opportunistic approach to cyberattacks makes critical 
infrastructure owners in the United States susceptible to being targeted by Iranian actors, 
particularly when Tehran believes that it must demonstrate it can push back against the United 
States in other domains. Iranian actors have engaged in a wide range of intelligence -gathering 
operations around the world, and —in the wake of  Hamas’ atrocities on October 7, 2023, and 
Israel’s military operations in Gaza —have conducted wiper, website takedown, hack and leak 
operations, espionage, and online information manipulations campaigns. Iranian actors have 
also conducted malicious activi ty against operational technology devices used in the water 
sector and other industries.  
Cyber criminals and criminal syndicates operating in cyberspace now represent a specific threat 
to the economic and national security of countries around the world. Cybercrime and online 
fraud cause significant harm to economic development, with small - to medium -sized 
enterprises and financial service providers especially at risk. According to one estimate, the 
global cost of cybercrime is estimated to top $23 trillion in 20272. 
Ransomware incidents have disrupted critical functions, services, and businesses, from energy 
pipelines and food companies to schools and hospitals. Ransomware attacks against the 
 
2 Anna Fleck, “ Cybercrime Expected to Skyrocket in Coming Years,” Statista, February 22, 2024  Page 14 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  healthcare industry can undercut the level of care provided to patients and others under care. 
Total economic losses from ransomware attacks worldwide continue to climb, reaching into the 
billions of U.S. dollars annually. Ransomware groups often operate o ut of safe haven 
jurisdictions whose governments, often adversaries like Russia, do not cooperate with law 
enforcement and sometimes encourage, direct, sanction, or tolerate their activities.  
Terrorists’ and violent extremists’ use of digital technologies also represents a threat to the 
national security of the United States and its allies and partners. Malign activities include the 
use of information and communications technologies (ICT) to sp read violent propaganda; 
encourage radicalization and mobilization to commit violent acts; recruit individuals to terrorist 
organizations; to train, plan, and coordinate attacks; and finance terrorist acts.  
Competing Internet Norms  
Russia, the PRC, and other authoritarian states have promoted a vision of global Internet 
governance that centers on domestic control and top -down, state -centric mechanisms over the 
existing bottom -up multistakeholder processes. Russia and the PRC attempt to use multilateral 
fora like the UN to exert their influence on and appeal to developing countries, with the aim of 
reshaping the global cyber and technology policy landscape to advance an authoritarian agenda 
while hampering the United States and its all ies. Russia, the PRC, and others seek to reshape 
norms governing cyberspace, undermine the technical underpinnings of the Internet, and dilute 
accountability for authoritarian countries’ malicious use of cyberspace capabilities.  
Authoritarian governments are working to weaken global commitment to universal human 
rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and international legal 
instruments, such as the UN Charter and the International Covenant on Civil and Politi cal Rights. 
Authoritarian governments, most notably the PRC, are actively working to co -opt and redefine 
well-established terminology related to “democracy” and “human rights” in the context of 
international technology policy development, including throug h their input into the UN Pact for 
the Future process and its Global Digital Compact.  Page 15 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Threats to Internet and Digital Freedom  
Authoritarian and illiberal states are seeking to restrict human rights online and offline through 
the misuse of the Internet and digital technologies. Governments are closing and siloing the 
Internet: suppressing dissent through Internet and telecommunica tions shutdowns, virtual 
blackouts, restricted networks, and blocked websites.  
The PRC has developed a massive system of surveillance, and its firms are now exporting their 
regulatory approach and technical capabilities to facilitate other governments’ monitoring and 
repression. Beijing has also used cyber means to target people beyond its borders, including 
journalists, dissidents, and individua ls it views as threats to Chinese Communist Party 
narratives, policies, and actions. In the wake of its full -scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the 
Russian government blocked access to foreign websites and increased censorship and 
surveillance of domestic users. The Iranian government continues to rely on Internet 
restrictions, filtering, and surveillance to repress opposition to the regime.  
 A growing number of governments, including backsliding democracies, are misusing digital 
tools in ways that violate or abuse the individual’s right to be free from arbitrary or unlawful 
interference with one’s privacy, and restricting and threatening indi viduals’ rights to freedoms 
of expression, association and peaceful assembly. Commercial spyware, AI -enabled facial 
recognition software, and other surveillance technologies are misused against journalists, 
human rights defenders and other activists, women , and members of marginalized groups, 
including beyond countries’ borders. Technology -facilitated gender -based violence (TFGBV) 
chills speech, impedes privacy and freedom of expression, and undermines the ability of 
women, girls, and LGBTQI+ individuals to  participate in democracy, governance, and civic life.  
The proliferation of online manipulation, in combination with threats posed by foreign 
adversaries seeking to interfere with information integrity, pose fundamental threats to 
democracy, undermining trust in institutions, threatening electoral processes, a nd sowing 
discord within and between countries. PRC actors have increased their capabilities to conduct 
covert influence operations and disseminate disinformation. Even if Beijing sets limits on these 
activities, individuals not under its direct supervisio n may attempt election influence activities Page 16 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  they perceive are in line with the PRC’s goals. The Russian government remains a serious foreign 
influence threat because of its wide -ranging efforts to try to divide Western alliances and 
undermine U.S. global standing. Recently, Russian influence actors have adapted their efforts to 
better hide their hand.  
Challenges of the Digital Economy  
Some 2.6 billion people still do not have access to the Internet, leaving a third of the world 
unconnected. This situation presents an economic development challenge for many countries 
and a strategic challenge for the United States and its allies and part ners. Left unaddressed, the 
digital divide not only imperils efforts to build a strong digital ecosystem, but also threatens to 
increase income inequality and instability in emerging economies. The digital divide 
disproportionately affects women and other marginalized groups. For example, 80 percent of 
women in low -income countries do not use the Internet.3 
As the world has increasingly digitalized, countries around the world are grappling with how to 
approach the digital economy in a way that takes advantages of its benefits, addresses its risks, 
and expands its reach to more people. Governments are developi ng differing regulatory 
approaches to a range of policy issues, such as protecting children's safety, health, and privacy, 
tackling TFGBV, addressing anti -competitive behavior, guaranteeing equitable access to 
connectivity and technology, building trusted digital infrastructure, and promoting trusted 
cross -border data flows.  
A growing number of countries are promoting digital public infrastructure (DPI) as critical to 
achieving economic growth, good governance, and the UN sustainable development goals 
(SDGs). The definition of DPI is evolving, but generally encompasses network ed open 
technology standards designed for the public interest, an enabling regulatory environment, and 
a community of market players driving innovation. While some of the most prominent models 
have included digital identification, digital payments, and dat a platforms for sharing and storing 
 
3 ITU, “Facts & Figures 2023, The Gender Digital Divide ” Page 17 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  data, there is no one -size-fits-all solution. DPI models need to be grounded in safeguards, 
including human rights protections, and such models should be interoperable.  
U.S. government and private sector actors seek to leverage data and the digital economy for 
positive economic and social benefits: preserving openness while protecting privacy, promoting 
safety, and mitigating harms. The Department of State, working with o ther agencies, looks to 
shape markets and safeguard innovation from regulatory excesses. Although there is an 
increasing willingness by some countries to embrace narratives of digital sovereignty and 
protectionism by blocking access to their markets, undul y preventing cross -border data flows, 
and preferencing domestic manufacturers and service providers, we continue international 
engagement to enhance interoperability, security, and market access.  
Many states are promoting digital technologies for economic growth while trying to maintain 
autonomy and neutrality. They are looking to build digital infrastructure quickly and cheaply and 
seeking assistance to combat cybercrime and develop cybersecurity capacities. Yet the PRC 
government distorts markets  to advantage PRC -based hardware, software, and services 
suppliers that compromise the security of the customer. By contrast, the United States seeks to 
provide the emerging and developing world with financially sound alternatives to unsustainable 
initiati ves. The Department of State is committed to working with allies and partners to offer 
and deploy secure technologies that allow countries and civic actors around the world to build 
digital infrastructure and improve cybersecurity across sectors, offering direct benefits to 
governments while helping to ensure the protection of the human rights and privacy of their 
citizens that will enable an inclusive digital economy.  
The Future of AI Technologies Governance  
The uncertainty and complexity that characterizes the geopolitical competition over these 
digital technologies is compounded by the fact that we sit at the cusp of another technological 
revolution. The revolution in AI systems may occur at an even faster p ace than the development 
and adoption of the Internet. AI technologies could be powerful tools for expanding knowledge, 
increasing prosperity and productivity, and addressing global challenges, and AI tools may help 
advance the seventeen UN SDGs. AI applic ations have the further potential to improve many Page 18 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  aspects of citizens’ lives including food security, health applications, good governance and 
democratic consolidation, and natural disaster preparedness and prevention.  
The rapid growth of AI technology, however, comes with the significant risk that its use may 
exacerbate inequality and economic instability, stifle competition, cause consumer harm, 
aggravate discrimination and bias, invade privacy, enhance malicious cyber activity, and improve 
authoritarian capabilities for surveillance and repression . AI will challenge how we compensate 
for the uses of intellectual property as well as authenticate, label, or detect synthetic content. AI 
may also require workforce adaptations across economies; the rising energy demands of high -
end AI chips and data cen ters could become a significant barrier to developing local capabilities.  
Further, state and non -state actors have been observed using generative AI systems for 
malicious purposes, including to manipulate and disseminate disinformation at speed and scale. 
Many AI technologies are also dual use, lending themselves to new military  and national 
security capabilities that may lack appropriate human rights and civil liberty protections and 
other safeguards. AI can advantage both the attacker and defender in cyberspace, and the 
systems themselves are subject to data poisoning and other  types of malicious activities.  
The question of how to balance risk and rewards looms large for governments and civil society 
around the world. The United States is working with allies and partners to move quickly to 
address the ways in which artificial intelligence can potentially desta bilize societies while 
preserving its benefits —and, crucially, staying true to democratic values and protecting human 
rights. A critical part of this work is not only safeguarding an open and independent research 
environment but also partnering with emergi ng economies in the development and deployment 
of AI technologies. Helping to provide unrestricted access to an open, interoperable, reliable, 
and secure Internet while demonstrating how AI can serve a shared agenda across the globe can 
help reduce the ris k that the AI revolution will contribute to global instability and diminish our 
ability to address global challenges.  
Working with the Private Sector and Civil Society  
Competition, consumer choice, vibrant private sector investment, and a robust civil society are 
the hallmarks of an open, inclusive, and secure digital ecosystem. The Department of State Page 19 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  cannot accomplish its objectives without strong partnerships with the private sector, civil 
society, academic, and technical communities. New innovations spring from the private sector, 
and the decisions tech companies make on how their systems are develop ed and deployed have 
profound implications for how U.S. values and interests are realized —including protecting users’ 
safety and privacy. U.S. officials rely on a range of private sector, academic, and civic actors for 
insights into technology developments , and private sector and trade association stakeholders 
often provide early warning of discriminatory regulations that explicitly target American 
companies. Trusted technology suppliers, including small - and medium -sized enterprises, are 
essential partners  in efforts to expand connectivity through open, secure, and resilient networks 
across the globe.  
Civil society groups are working to ensure that individuals can access and pursue opportunities 
online free from unlawful surveillance and privacy -invasive data collection practices and are 
working to counter harmful propaganda and disinformation in digita l spaces. Civil society and 
the technical community are often the first to recognize, warn of, and seek solutions to threats 
to human rights online and offline. As Internet freedom continues to decline in parts of the 
world, civil society activists, human rights defenders, and the journalists covering their activism 
are often leading the push back in digitally repressive societies, often at great personal risk. 
Additionally, civil society, the academic and technical community, and private sector actors play  
a crucial role in upholding the multistakeholder model of Internet governance, which is 
increasingly under threat.  
The private sector, civil society, and the technical community are essential in helping defend 
against malicious cyber activities. In 2022, the private sector aided Albania in the wake of 
Iranian cyberattacks and, during Russia’s full -scale invasion of Ukr aine, technology firms and 
cybersecurity companies provided services, tools, and threat intelligence to help Ukraine defend 
government and critical infrastructure networks. They migrated data storage and cloud hosting 
services to counteract Russian efforts  to erase critical data and provided Internet and 
telecommunication services that helped keep government agencies and businesses operating. 
Non -governmental organizations and academic research groups have exposed the threat posed Page 20 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  by the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware against journalists, activists, and 
marginalized groups.  
Public -private partnerships are essential to cyber and digital diplomacy, and they need to be 
flexible and adaptable. Cyber defense may require new ways to scale, supply, and license cyber 
defense services and products in a crisis and may be difficult to l aunch and sustain in a different 
regional context. Repressive governments are developing new methods to control digital 
technologies and to manipulate and interfere with information flows. To address these and 
other evolving challenges, the Department of S tate will continue to expand contact with and 
solicit input from a wide range of civil society and private sector actors. In addition, the United 
States will continue to work with allies and partners to advance a multistakeholder approach to 
digital and da ta governance.  
Building Digital Solidarity  
The United States believes digital technologies can and should be used to put people on a path 
to prosperity, solve global challenges, and build a better future for all. The Department of State 
will work with allies, partners, and stakeholders to promote a n affirmative vision for cyber and 
digital technologies: one in which people around the world use cyberspace and digital 
technologies to advance economic prosperity and inclusion; enhance security and combat 
cybercrime; promote and protect human rights, ge nder equity and equality, democracy, and the 
rule of the law; and address transnational challenges. As part of this approach, the United 
States, allies, and partners will demonstrate the advantages of an open, interoperable, secure, 
and reliable Internet; serve as the partner of choice in the research, design, development, and 
deployment of digital and emerging technologies; and jointly impose consequences for behavior 
that runs counter to internationally accepted norms of state behavior. The Department of State 
will also work with and support emerging economies’ efforts to improve cybersecurity and 
increase their cyber -resilience.  
Each of the Strategy’s four action areas —promote, build, and maintain an open, inclusive, 
secure, and resilient digital ecosystem; align rights -respecting approaches to digital governance; 
advance responsible state behavior, counter malicious activity, and  offer mutual support; and Page 21 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  strengthen digital and cyber capacity building assistance —reflects aspects of the Department of 
State’s vision of digital solidarity. Moving forward, the Department of State will work to bring a 
wide range of partners across the globe into the process of b uilding and extending digital 
solidarity. We welcome all those who seek to develop and deploy technologies that are open 
and secure, promote inclusive growth, foster resilient and democratic societies, and empower 
all, including the most vulnerable.  
 
Figure 2. Secretary Blinken and Deputy Secretary Sherman Visit the new Cyberspace and Digital Policy Bureau at the U.S.  
ACTION AREA 1: Promote, Build, and Maintain an Open, Inclusive,  
Secure, and Resilient Digital Ecosystem  
Digital solidarity rests on and is reinforced by innovation across an open, inclusive, secure, and 
resilient digital ecosystem. Though the United States is a major power in digital, critical, and 
emerging technologies, we are not able to —nor should we —go it alone. Rather, the United 
States, allies, and partners are all made more prosperous, self -determining, and resilient when 
we work together to catalyze, support, and sustain rapid technological development on a range 
of critical technologies.  
Page 22 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  In close coordination with allies, partners, the private sector, and civil society, the Department 
of State continues to campaign for open, interoperable, secure, trusted, and reliable 
telecommunication networks, especially on fifth -generation wireless net works (5G). The White 
House, Department of State, USAID, Department of Commerce, and the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) are engaged in discussions with allies and partners about 
deploying 5G mobile networks using trusted vendors and the future of 6G. Digital technologies 
are not limited to wireless technologies, and the Department of State and other agencies are 
coordinating with allies and partners on the development, deployment, and security of cloud 
infrastructure and data centers, undersea cabl es, and satellite communications. In addition, at 
all UN bodies the United States aims to promote —at a high level —the development, 
deployment, and use of rights -respecting digital technologies.  
Line of Effort 1: Promote Development and Adoption of Open, Inclusive,  
Secure, and Resilient Telecommunication Networks  
5G applications are rapidly evolving —expanding digital connectivity in new ways and creating 
new cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Telecommunication networks should be built using products 
from trusted suppliers that operate, and have supply chain partners th at operate, primarily in 
countries that respect rights through consistent application of the law through an independent 
judiciary, in accordance with the principles reflected in the Organisation for Economic Co -
operation and Development (OECD) Declaration on Government Access to Personal Data Held 
by Private Sector Entities. Telecommunications networks should not be built using products 
from suppliers subject to the control or influence of an authoritarian regime, and without 
meaningful, independent checks and balances or judicial recourse against government 
demands. International 5G -related principles, such as the Prague Proposals on 5G Security and 
Prague Proposals on Telecommunications Supplier Diversity, support market competitiveness 
and the diversity o f trusted 5G equipment vendors.  
These efforts also extend to the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment’s Digital 
Infrastructure pillar. Recognizing that cost is often the primary driving factor in ICT 
procurements, the United States is supporting governments, middle -mile i nternet infrastructure 
providers, and Internet service providers to develop greater competition and diversity in Page 23 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  telecommunications supply chains, particularly through the Digital Connectivity and 
Cybersecurity Partnership (DCCP). DCCP is a whole -of-government effort, led by the Department 
of State, to provide capacity building, technical assistance, and project desi gn and financing in 
support of an open Internet and enhanced cybersecurity.  
In addition, the CHIPS and Science Act allocated $500 million to the International Technology 
Security and Innovation (ITSI) Fund for the Department of State to support the development 
and adoption of secure semiconductor supply chains and telecommunicatio ns networks. The 
United States will use this funding to continue to work with partners to put in place policy and 
regulatory frameworks for secure ICT ecosystems and to level the playing field for secure and 
trustworthy vendors.  
Along with helping build secure networks, digital solidarity is also expressed through efforts to 
build digital infrastructure that promotes competition, advances consumer choice, and puts 
communities and individuals in charge of their digital lives and re sources. Recognizing the need 
to attract capital and de -risk potential digital infrastructure investment, USAID —with funding 
from DCCP —launched a blended finance program called Digital Invest that partners with fund 
managers and project developers to expan d access to Internet connectivity and digital financial 
services in emerging markets worldwide. To date, Digital Invest’s 13 partners have leveraged an 
initial $8.45 million in Department of State and USAID funding to raise over $300 million in 
investment capital for digital finance and Internet service providers in emerging markets that 
use secure network equipment, catalyzing an additional $1.15 billion in follow -on funding from 
third -party investors.  
U.S. foreign assistance programs will also increase competition in the market and promote 
telecommunications supplier diversity by advancing the development of open and interoperable 
interfaces and protocols, such as Open Radio Access Networks (Open RAN). This open network 
architecture eases the ability for new suppliers to enter the market, lowers costs for 
deployment, and speeds innovation. Open RAN presents opportunities for emerging economies 
to participate directly in the supply chain, such as through local assembly and software 
development. Just as important, Open RAN offers alternatives for the reliance on technology 
from untrusted vendors. As a result, the Department of State will continue to support efforts Page 24 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  such as funding commercial trials, feasibility studies, reverse trade missions, and workforce 
education and awareness activities that promote Open RAN. The United States will continue 
collaborating with the governments of Australia, Canada, Japan, and the United Kingdom on 
telecommunications supply chain diversification and related issues through the Global Coalition 
on Telecommunications, launched in October 2023.  
Working with other governments and the private sector, the United States is also preparing for a 
new wave of innovation. Within the next decade, 6G will within the next decade bring even 
higher speeds, larger capacity, and lower latency to wireless communication. Building open and 
interoperable network architectures such as Open RAN into 6G development from the 
beginning will help ensure supplier diversity and supply chain resilience. In February 2024, the 
United States —with Australia, Canad a, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Japan, the Republic 
of Korea, Sweden, and the United Kingdom —endorsed shared principles for the research and 
development of 6G wireless communication systems.  
Line of Effort 2: Further Common Understandings and Shared Principles for  
the Secure Use and Trustworthiness of Cloud Services, Data Centers, and  
Related Infrastructure Technologies  
Cloud computing has become an essential enabler of the digital transformation of economies 
and businesses. By providing on-demand access to scalable computing resources in a reliable 
and cost -effective manner, cloud services allow governments and businesses to deliver more 
secure and resilient services to their citizens and customers. Moreover, cloud services were 
proven to  be a strategic asset as Russian forces physically destroyed Ukrainian facilities holding 
critical data. Migration of government information technology infrastructure to the cloud 
improved resilience and preserved information essential to the operation of the economy and 
government.  
U.S. cloud computing and data center firms compete globally and offer services to a broad 
international customer base while, in parallel, the United States government actively partners 
with foreign governments to promote the fair and safe use of cloud comp uting resources. At the 
same time, providers from authoritarian states are globalizing, and they are often more 
responsive to short -term local economic development goals, providing packages that include Page 25 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  financial subsidies, local cloud infrastructure, and workforce training. Cloud services and data 
centers are also a source of tension with close trade partners. Some have threatened to exclude 
U.S. cloud providers from their markets in part because of conc erns about access to and control 
of data, despite the U.S. Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data (CLOUD) Act providing for 
agreements to allow for consistent protections based on the rule of law. The Department of 
State is committed to reaching a common u nderstanding with our international partners on the 
fair and safe use of cloud computing resources.  
In addition, the Department of State will work with international partners and the private sector 
to address the costs and increase support for building secure cloud infrastructure in emerging 
economies. DCCP is reinforcing these efforts through the suppor t of feasibility studies, reverse 
trade missions, financing, and training programs, such as training grants in the Philippines to 
support the provision of cloud computing capabilities.  
 
Figure 3. “Global Submarine Cable Map 2024.”  Illustration by TeleGeography  
Page 26 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  The Submarine Cable Map 2024 by TeleGeography, illustrates the global network of 559 
submarine cable systems and 1,636 landings essential for telecom and internet connectivity. 
Telecom Egypt, a strategic hub linking Africa, Europe, and Asia, is expanding i ts network, notably 
with the Red2Med project connecting the Red and Mediterranean seas.  
Key global hubs include Egypt, Marseille, Japan, and Singapore, with significant investments 
from companies like Google and Meta driving growth. The map highlights cable routes, landing 
points, operators, capacities, and technological advancements, while r egional connectivity 
spans North America, Europe, Asia -Pacific, and developing regions in Africa and the Middle East.  
Technological advancements focus on fiber optics, latency reduction, and sustainability. The 
map underscores the critical role of submarine cables in global communication and digital 
transformation.   Page 27 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Line of Effort 3: Enhance Security and Resilience of Undersea Cables  
Undersea cables carry more than 95 percent of the world’s digital traffic. As data continues to 
proliferate and increase exponentially, so too does demand for cables and other transmission 
systems. Disruption or destruction of the cables as a result of acc idents, natural disasters, or 
malicious actions could isolate a county, threaten national security, and result in billions of 
dollars of damage to the economy. Choices made about which vendors to rely on for undersea 
cable infrastructure, maintenance, and repair operations can either drive development and 
innovation or lead to new forms of dependency and insecurity. As a result, the Department of 
State, in coordination with other agencies, will prioritize enhancing the security and resilience of 
undersea ca bles.  
U.S. firms and other trusted suppliers are leading producers of many network components, 
embedded technologies, and related services for undersea cables, and they are investing in and 
financing new undersea cables connecting all regions of the world. The U .S. government will 
continue to support U.S. and other trusted suppliers in the installation, operation, maintenance, 
and repair of secure infrastructure as well as to promote a regulatory environment that enables 
continued investments.  
Since 2021, the Department of State has implemented the CABLES program throughout the East 
Asia Pacific region, responsibly informing essential telecommunications and cables 
infrastructure stakeholders of the perils of choosing untrusted suppliers. The Uni ted States 
provided capacity building to support five countries using U.S. technology for the South -East 
Asia-Middle East -Western Europe 6 cable (SMW6), and separately it provided over $22 million 
in partnership with Australia and Japan to help fund the Ea st Micronesia Cable being built by a 
Japanese firm. In October 2023, the United States announced that, working with Congress, it 
would provide, along with Australia, investments totaling $65 million to fund future undersea 
cable connectivity for Pacific Is land countries in order to facilitate access to global markets and 
the realization of regional connectivity goals. In support of these policy objectives, the United 
States will continue engaging with the G7 and other multilateral groups to strengthen trust ed, 
multi -layered global connectivity that provides data route diversity, resiliency, and 
redundancies.  Page 28 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Line of Effort 4: Pursue Shared Interests in the Development, Use, Resilience,  
and Security of Satellite Communication Networks  
Satellite communications remain a vital capability for connecting the world and delivering global 
access to information. Geostationary orbit (GEO) satellites have served this mission for decades 
and will continue to do so for decades to come. Newly deployed satellit e technologies, including 
low-earth orbit (LEO) satellites, are increasingly important to the United States, its allies, and 
partners as we work to connect the unconnected. The distributed nature of proliferated satellite 
constellations offers resilience, and LEO satellite communication services can increasingly be 
deployed rapidly to cover disaster or conflict zones. Moreover, the ability of LEO satellite 
services to bring broadband communications to almost every inch of the planet raises the 
possibility o f expanding Internet access in a rights -respecting manner, closing the digital divide, 
and advancing UN Sustainable Development Goals.  
U.S. firms lead in the development and deployment of GEO and LEO satellite communication 
services, but other countries, including our strategic competitors, are investing in new 
technology capacities. The PRC is planning a constellation of about 13,000 sat ellites, with a clear 
government mandate and significant financial subsidies. Some states, concerned that LEO 
satellite capabilities will undermine their ability to control information flows, are raising market 
access barriers, such as setting stringent do mestic equipment requirements or forbidding 
foreign ownership. Some governments and non -government stakeholders have also raised 
concerns in multilateral bodies about increased space debris, interference with astronomy, 
increased cases of radio frequency i nterference among LEO satellites or from LEO to GEO 
satellites, and other potential negative impacts of LEO satellite networks. Some countries, 
although they are interested in the connectivity benefits LEO satellite systems could bring, are 
unfamiliar with  the systems and lack effective regimes to support market entry and licensing. In 
addition, space systems and assets introduce vulnerabilities to U.S. and allies’ critical 
infrastructure that our adversaries are willing to exploit.  
The Department of State will cooperate with partners and allies to pursue shared interests in 
the development, use, resilience, and security of LEO satellite systems. The Department of State 
will work to expand global access to secure services through the International Page 29 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Telecommunication Union (ITU), remove barriers to LEO satellite system providers, and increase 
multilateral assistance for satellite services for underserved areas. The Department of State, 
along with other agencies, will also facilitate international coop eration on research and 
development in LEO satellites. The United States will also promote norms, guidelines, and best 
practices, including the development of licensing and regulatory regimes, for the secure, safe, 
and sustainable use of LEO satellites, as  well as work with allies and partners on enhancing 
space cybersecurity and critical infrastructure resilience and security.  
Line of Effort 5: Enhance the International Telecommunication Union’s  
Effectiveness, Transparency, and Accountability  
Responsible, forward -looking, inclusive, and transparent leadership by the ITU on 
telecommunications standards, telecommunications and ICT development, closing digital 
divides, and radio frequency spectrum is vital to U.S. development, defense, and economi c 
priorities. The United States has long supported the work of the ITU in its core competencies, 
including global radiofrequency spectrum harmonization and advancing the development of the 
world’s telecommunications networks by enhancing connectivity and i nteroperability. Since 
Secretary -General Doreen Bogdan -Martin’s 2022 election, the United States has been working 
with other member states and partners to help her deliver on her vision to expand digital 
connectivity and inclusion; strengthen partnerships and stakeholder collaboration; empower 
and engage youth; and enhance the ITU’s organizational effectiveness, transparency, and 
accountability to achieve its overall goals.  
ACTION AREA 2: Align Rights -Respecting Approaches to Digital and 
Data Governance with International Partners  
Digital solidarity recognizes the necessity of the domestic governance of digital and emerging 
technologies but seeks to develop shared mechanisms that will help maintain an open, 
interoperable, secure, and reliable Internet as well as trusted cross -border  data flows. It works 
to foster democratic values -based and rights -respecting policies.  
To advance the NSS and the NCS effectively, promoting, building, and maintaining a secure 
digital ecosystem must be accompanied by efforts to make digital and data governance Page 30 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  compatible across allies and partners through greater alignment, mutual recognition, and 
reciprocity of policies. The Department of State, along with other federal agencies, is building 
and reinforcing digital solidarity through support for the trusted flo w of data; advocacy for 
multistakeholder, risk -based approaches to digital and data governance; and the promotion of 
shared values and governance principles for critical and emerging technologies. The 
Department of State, in collaboration with the Departme nt of Commerce and other agencies, is 
expanding its capacity to engage in international standards development organizations and to 
coordinate with industry and civil society to ensure robust participation by U.S. stakeholders in 
standards setting processes  and other international fora. The United States is also working with 
allies and partners to advance a common, rights -respecting vision for the digital future; 
negotiate a rights -respecting cybercrime treaty; and defend information integrity.  
Line of Effort 1: Support the Trusted Flow of Data and Advocate for  
Multistakeholder, Risk -Based Approaches to Digital and Data Governance  
Digital solidarity is further built and reinforced through the joint development, harmonization, 
and mutual recognition of rights -respecting approaches to data governance and digital trade. 
This work is currently ongoing through mechanisms such as Indo -Pacific Economic Framework 
for Prosperity (IPEF), Digital Transformation with Africa initiative (DTA), the Americas 
Partnership for Economic Prosperity (APEP), the G7, OECD, TTC,  and the Quad.  
The United States supports the trusted free flow of data and an open Internet with strong and 
effective protections for individuals’ human rights and privacy and measures to preserve 
governments’ abilities to enforce laws and advance policies in the public  interest. Legitimate 
concerns about data privacy can be addressed through protective mechanisms that follow the 
data while at the same time facilitate cross -border data flows and strengthen global cooperation 
among enforcement authorities.  The United Stat es will continue championing trusted  cross -
border data flows by promoting data transfer mechanisms that improve interoperability 
between different data privacy regimes. Working alongside our interagency partners, the 
Department of State supported the negotiation and implementation of the EU - U.S. Data 
Privacy Framework; the development of the OECD Declaration on Trusted Government Access 
to Data Held by the Private Sector, which identifies commonalities in the privacy safeguards Page 31 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  democratic governments follow when accessing data for legitimate law enforcement and 
national security purposes; as well as initiatives on Data Free Flow with Trust at both the G7 and 
the OECD. The Department of State works with the Department of Justice t o clarify application 
of the U.S. Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data (CLOUD) Act and to negotiate bilateral 
agreements under the act.  
Along with Australia, Canada, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Mexico, the Philippines, Singapore, 
and Taiwan, the United States launched the Global Cross -Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) Forum in 
April 2022, building on the previously established Asia Pacific Eco nomic Cooperation (APEC) 
CBPR system. The CBPR provides a data privacy certification backed by relevant authorities that 
facilitates data flows by promoting interoperable, enforceable data protection standards. 
Officials from the Departments of State and C ommerce will continue efforts to bring new 
countries into the agreement, building on efforts such as workshops held in Kenya, Mexico, 
Chile, Brazil, UK, Israel, Jordan, Panama, Colombia, Fiji, and Barbados as well as ASEAN 
countries.  
While the United States and its likeminded trade partners share many of the same values, we 
often have differing approaches to how to regulate the digital economy. The U.S. government 
advocates for multistakeholder, risk -based approaches that target the ch allenges we face while 
providing the flexibility to realize the benefits of new and emerging technologies. Unilateral 
approaches in digital taxation and the imposition of network usage fees often do not address 
the core issues of accessibility and fairness  expressed by their proponents. Additionally, the rise 
of a growing digital sovereignty narrative that has been embraced by some of our close partners 
and allies has the potential to undermine key digital economy and cybersecurity objectives. The 
Departmen t of State, working with other agencies, will continue to argue against data 
localization, network usage fees, digital services taxes as well as other market access barriers 
that contribute to the perception of increased control, but in reality often can u ndermine 
growth and security objectives.  Page 32 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Line of Effort 2: Promote Common Understandings of Trust, Interoperable  
Standards , and Shared Values and Governance Principles for Critical and  
Emerging Technologies  
One of the most pressing challenges for digital solidarity is developing common approaches to 
governing critical and emerging technologies such as AI. The speed of innovation, the scale of 
the competition, and the stakes for our values, security, and prosp erity demand concerted 
action. With AI technologies, we will not have the luxury of time or of pursuing narrow interests 
that have often slowed our ability to develop shared principles and interoperable regulatory 
approaches in other parts of the digital e conomy.  
Shaping shared values and governance principles on the development, deployment, and use of 
AI is increasingly central to American digital diplomacy. The United States is engaging allies, 
partners, the private sector, civil society, the technical community, and other stakeholders in 
discussions at the G7, Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence, the Council of Europe, OECD, 
UN, UNESCO, and other fora to manage the risks of AI and ensure its benefits are widely 
distributed. In addition, we will need to work together to invest in the science research and 
infrastructure necessary to measure, evaluate, and verify advanced AI technology systems.  
In July 2023, President Biden announced voluntary commitments from seven leading AI 
companies to advance the safe, secure, and transparent development of AI technology. Eight 
more companies (including one foreign -based company) signed on to the commitments  in 
September. The United States internationalized and expanded on the voluntary commitments 
through the G7 Hiroshima AI process led by Japan to tackle generative AI, with leaders releasing 
an International Code of Conduct for Organizations Developing Adva nced AI systems in October 
2023. We continue to work on broadening acceptance of the Code of Conduct by more 
countries and companies beyond G7 member countries.  
The United States joined twenty -seven other countries at the UK AI Safety Summit and signed 
the Bletchley Declaration, which encourages transparency and accountability from actors 
developing frontier AI technology. The United States and the United Kingdom have also signed a 
memorandum of understanding between their respective AI Safety Institutes advancing the 
science of measuring, evaluating, and addressing AI risks as a first step toward a global Page 33 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  consensus on the scientific underpinnings of AI safety. These efforts outline a role for national 
governments, promote international cooperation, and encourage innovation by providing 
technically rigorous guidelines for introducing safe, secure, and trustw orthy AI technology. At 
the same time, USAID and several other international development donors entered into a 
partnership to promote safe, secure, and trustworthy AI development in low - and middle -
income countries in Africa and other parts of the world.  
Hiroshima Principles for Generative AI  
1. Take appropriate measures throughout the development of advanced AI systems, 
including prior to and throughout their deployment and placement on the market, to 
identify, evaluate, and mitigate risks across the AI lifecycle.  
2. Identify and mitigate vulnerabilities, and, where appropriate, incidents and patterns of 
misuse, after deployment including placement on the market.  
3. Publicly report advanced AI systems’ capabilities, limitations and domains of appropriate 
and inappropriate use, to support ensuring sufficient transparency, thereby contributing 
to increase accountability.  
4. Work towards responsible information sharing and reporting of incidents among 
organizations developing advanced AI systems including with industry, governments, civil 
society, and academia.  
5. Develop, implement, and disclose AI governance and risk management policies, 
grounded in a risk -based approach – including privacy policies, and mitigation measures, 
in particular for organizations developing advanced AI systems.  
6. Invest in and implement robust security controls, including physical security, 
cybersecurity and insider threat safeguards across the AI lifecycle.  
7. Develop and deploy reliable content authentication and provenance mechanisms, where 
technically feasible, such as watermarking or other techniques to enable users to 
identify AI -generated content.  Page 34 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  8. Prioritize research to mitigate societal, safety and security risks and prioritize investment 
in effective mitigation measures.  
9. Prioritize the development of advanced AI systems to address the world’s greatest 
challenges, notably but not limited to the climate crisis, global health and education.  
10. Advance the development of and, where appropriate, adoption of international 
technical standards.  
11. Implement appropriate data input measures and protections for personal data and 
intellectual property.  
In October 2023, President Biden issued an Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and 
Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence. This Order establishes a process to 
develop new standards for AI safety and security and seeks to protect citize ns’ privacy, promote 
innovation and competition, and advance equity and human rights. The Order tasked the 
Department of State with strengthening U.S. leadership abroad on AI issues. The Department of 
State and USAID, in collaboration with the Department o f Commerce, are leading an effort to 
establish an AI in Global Development Playbook to harness AI’s benefits and manage its risks. 
Relatedly, the Department of State plans to lead an interagency task force on detecting, 
authenticating, and labeling syntheti c content, which aims to facilitate information sharing and 
mobilize global commitments to both label authentic government -produced content and detect 
synthetic content. In addition, working with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the 
Department o f State is engaging international partners to help prevent, respond to, and recover 
from potential critical infrastructure disruptions resulting from the incorporation of AI into 
critical infrastructure systems or the malicious use of AI against those syst ems. The Department 
of State and USAID are also working with interagency partners, including the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology (NIST), National Science Foundation (NSF), and Department of 
Energy, to develop a human rights risk management f ramework for AI and a global AI research 
agenda.  
The Department of State is also building broad -based support for the Political Declaration on 
Responsible Military Use of AI and Autonomy. While there are important discussions ongoing in Page 35 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Geneva under the framework of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons (CCW) – 
which the United States will continue to support – the scope of those discussions only covers 
one possible military use of AI, namely autonomous weapon systems. The Politi cal Declaration 
is the first effort to articulate principles and best practices covering all military applications of AI 
technologies.  
Line of Effort 3: Ensure International Standards Processes are Transparent, Open,  
Inclusive, and Impartial  
International technology standards facilitate technology advancement, trade, global economic 
growth, and market access, particularly for startups and small - and medium -sized enterprises. 
They are also an area of strategic and economic competition, with the PRC in particular pushing 
top-down approaches to standards development process and using its economic influence to 
comp el support for its standard proposals. In May 2023, the Biden -Harris White House 
published the first ever U.S. Government National Standards Strategy for Critical and Emerging 
Technology (USG NSSCET). As outlined in the USG NSSCET, the United States will w ork with 
allies, partners, the private sector, and civil society to ensure that international standards 
development embraces transparency, openness, impartiality and consensus, effectiveness and 
relevance, coherence, and broad multistakeholder participatio n. The Department of State, in 
cooperation with the Department of Commerce and other agencies, is building enhanced 
capacity to engage directly in international standards development organizations and to 
coordinate with industry and civil society to ensure  robust participation by U.S. stakeholders in 
standards making processes.  
Working with the FCC, NIST, National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
(NTIA), and other federal agencies, the Department of State supports standards development 
processes for a wide range of critical and emerging technologies and platforms , including IoT, 
energy grids, smart cities, and connected vehicles. The United States will continue to promote 
and leverage cybersecurity and privacy standards and guidelines developed by NIST through 
open processes with a strong connection to internation al standards.  
This approach reinforces the U.S. policy for standards: a private -sector led, industry -driven 
approach with government participation that emphasizes the use of international standards Page 36 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  developed in open, transparent, and consensus -based processes. This alignment helps 
stakeholders reduce the burden of international regulatory and legal regimes, leading to a 
reduced cost of operation and a greater understanding of international policies. It also 
highlights the value of a bottom -up approach for other governments as they develop their 
cybersecurity priorities.  
The U.S. government has developed formal and informal methods of information sharing and 
standards development monitoring through regular engagement with partners and allies. Quad 
partners and members of the TTC, for example, have signed memoranda of coope ration to 
enable increased information sharing, coordination, and influence in international standards 
development. The Department of State has also supported increasing participation in standards 
development organizations from historically underrepresente d nations.  
Line of Effort 4: Expand and Diversify Civil Society Participation  in  
Multistakeholder Processes  
The United States and its partners remain committed to the multistakeholder model of Internet 
and digital governance. Active and meaningful participation of all stakeholders, including 
governments, civil society, the private sector, academia, and the techn ical community, is 
essential to informing our discussions and policymaking, promoting transparency and 
accountability, and strengthening implementation and sustainable development. Through 
foreign assistance programs, the Department of State is advancing p olicy and advocacy 
initiatives through which civil society stakeholders engage with national governments, regional 
governance bodies, and international standard -setting entities to encourage Internet and digital 
governance policies consistent with democrati c values and international human rights. The 
Department of State will continue its efforts to expand and diversify the groups who are 
working to promote interoperable, rights -respecting, and secure digital technologies. It will also 
continue to prevent an d defend against efforts by repressive governments to exclude civil 
society and other stakeholders from participation in relevant fora.  
The United States strongly supports the Internet Governance Forum (IGF) as the preeminent 
global body bringing together all stakeholders through a bottom -up process to discuss rights -Page 37 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  respecting solutions to Internet public policy issues. It will continue to work with allies and 
partners to sustain and bolster the IGF’s relevance.  
Line of Effort 5: Advance a Common, Rights -Respecting Vision for the Digital  
Futur e 
Digital solidarity is built on a shared commitment to human -rights based technology 
governance. The Advancing Digital Democracy (ADD) initiative, launched by USAID at the 
Summit for Democracy in 2021, fosters an open, secure, and inclusive digital ecosystem through 
programs such as partnerships with governments, private sector and civil society to strengthen 
legal and regulatory frameworks for data and digital technologies, and increased support for 
software engineers, tech companies, and researchers working to embed respect for human 
rights and democratic values across the tech lifecycle. In April 2022, the United States and 60 
countries launched the Declaration for the Future of the Internet (DFI), bringing together a 
broad, diverse coalition of partners around a common, rights -respecting vision  for an open, 
interoperable, reliable, and secure digital future. As chair of the Freedom Online Coalition in 
2023, the United States prioritized protecting fundamental freedoms online; countering and 
building resilience to the misuse of digital technologi es; advancing norms, principles, and 
safeguards regarding the development and use of artificial intelligence; and strengthening 
digital inclusion. Similarly, the United States, working with 13 other countries, launched the 
Global Partnership for Action on Gender -Based Online Harassment and Abuse. This partnership, 
which emerged from the first Summit for Democracy, is a response to the need to address 
technology -facilitated gender -based violence as part of a shared global agenda to promote 
peace, security, a nd stability.  
The United States will continue working with allies and partners to ensure digital technologies 
are used in a responsible and rights -respecting manner. Along with 45 partners, the United 
States endorsed in March 2023 Guiding Principles on Government Use of  Surveillance 
Technologies, which are intended to prevent the misuse of surveillance technologies by 
governments. In addition, the Department of State will continue to advance programs that 
enable at -risk, vulnerable, and marginalized populations, or those  who protect them, to prepare Page 38 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  for, prevent, identify, investigate, and obtain remedy for digital abuses or other types of digital 
repression.  
The United States supports several multistakeholder efforts working to address a range of 
online challenges while respecting freedoms of opinion and expression, including the 
Christchurch Call to Action in 2019, the French -led Child Online Protection Labor atory, Freedom 
Online Coalition, and the Global Partnership for Action on Gender -Based Online Harassment 
and Abuse. The United States will continue to advocate for a rights -respecting approach 
consistent with protecting freedoms of opinion and expression a nd promoting gender equity 
and equality as governments around the world propose increased regulation of online 
platforms.  
Further strengthening domestic policy will enable deeper coordination with international 
partners on a range of digital issues. The Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy 
Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence, for example, has reinfo rced the position of the 
United States in international discussions on the governance of AI. The National Cybersecurity 
Strategy supports legislative efforts to impose robust, clear limits on the ability to collect, use, 
transfer, and maintain personal dat a and provide strong protections for sensitive data like 
geolocation and health information. The NCS specifically calls for this legislation to mitigate 
privacy risks arising from data processing and set national requirements to secure personal 
data.  
Line of Effort 6: Negotiate a Rights -Respecting Cybercrime Treaty  
The United States, its allies, and partners as well as civil society groups have long supported the 
Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime (commonly known as the Budapest Convention) as 
the most effective tool for providing global standards for crimina lizing malicious cyber activities, 
obtaining electronic evidence, and fostering international cooperation on computer -related 
crimes. The Convention was drafted to be global and open to all regions. Seventy -eight 
countries, including the United States, are  currently parties to the Convention, and 21 additional 
countries have been invited to accede.  Page 39 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  While supporting accession to the Budapest Convention, the United States and its partners are 
also actively working to ensure that negotiations in the UN Ad Hoc Committee to elaborate a 
convention against cybercrime reach a positive outcome: a rights -respe cting cybercrime treaty 
that would enable all UN member states to cooperate better in the fight against cybercrime. The 
United States and its partners will continue to oppose overly broad definitions of cybercrime 
that could be used to stifle freedom of ex pression, infringe on privacy, and or endanger 
individuals and communities. The United States will also continue to advocate for necessary and 
sufficient safeguards commensurate to the scope of the domestic powers and international 
cooperation provided for  in the convention. Maintaining an open, inclusive, and transparent 
process will best allow states to negotiate a binding agreement with the participation of 
interested stakeholders . 
Line of Effort 7: Defend Information Integrity  
Information integrity challenges are not new, but determined foreign state adversaries and 
rapid technological advances, especially AI -enabled human -machine interactions, create 
complex dynamics that compound information risks by enabling rapid, large -scale, and targeted 
dissemination of AI -enabled synthetic content. Building a resilient information environment —
one in which there is open, free public debate and consistent access to diverse sources of fact -
based information —is an ongoing priority for the Uni ted States and its allies and partners. 
These features are essential for citizens to inform their opinions and exercise their human 
rights, including freedom of expression, freedom of peaceful assembly and association, and the 
right to vote. Information ma nipulation is destabilizing and can harm national security, 
democratic processes, economic welfare, the environment, crisis response, human rights, and 
public health. While foreign actors seeking to interfere with or manipulate the information 
environment pose significant risks, there are additional challenges open societies face around 
the quality of information online and deteriorating trust.  
With allies and partners, the Department of State will continue to work to build civic 
information resilience, counter foreign state and non -state extremist propaganda online, and 
mitigate risks of AI to information integrity while protecting freedom of ex pression. The U.S. 
Government will work to protect the integrity of elections and other democratic processes Page 40 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  across the globe. At the TTC, OECD, and G7, the United States develops shared approaches to 
building healthy and resilient information ecosystems. The United States and France are co -
chairing the DIS/MIS Information Resource Hub, the OECD’s leading informa tion integrity 
initiative. At the Hub, the Department of State is focused on increasing cooperation around 
sharing of best practices and strengthening information resilience, both among OECD and non -
OECD countries, and developing a framework to guide whole -of-society efforts in this area. 
Through the Promoting Information Integrity and Resilience Initiative (Pro -Info), USAID aims to 
bolster healthy information ecosystems and help address information manipulation through 
multi -stakeholder engagement, donor c oordination, and capacity building efforts.  
At the third Summit for Democracy in 2024, the United States launched a democratic roadmap 
for building civic resilience to global digital manipulation that highlights the importance of the 
digital information manipulation challenge as a threat to the func tionality and vitality of society; 
recognizes that building information integrity can be consistent with freedom of opinion and 
expression; reinforces private sector digital platforms’ ability to strengthen civic resilience; and 
prioritizes efforts to addr ess generative AI (GAI) —particularly in the context of global 2024 
elections. The United States has also endorsed the Global Declaration on Information Integrity 
Online, launched by Canada and the Netherlands. The Declaration, grounded in international 
hum an rights law, establishes high -level international commitments by participating states to 
protect and promote information integrity online.  
In addition, the Department of State has announced a Framework to Counter Foreign State 
Information Manipulation. This Framework seeks to develop a common understanding of the 
threat and establish a common set of action areas from which the United States, with its allies 
and partners, can develop coordinated responses to foreign information manipulation and 
protect free and open societies.  Page 41 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  ACTION AREA 3: Advance Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace 
and Counter Threats to Cyberspace and Critical Infrastructure by 
Building Coalitions and Engaging Partners  
At the UN and regional security bodies, the United States, along with its allies and partners, is 
working to advance responsible state behavior in cyberspace based on a UN General Assembly -
endorsed framework, underpinned by the applicability of existing in ternational law, adherence 
to globally accepted and voluntary norms of state behavior in peacetime, development and 
implementation of confidence -building measures to reduce the risk of conflict in cyberspace, 
and a commitment to building states’ capacities  to implement the elements of the framework.  
Despite a global consensus on the framework for responsible behavior in cyberspace, the norms 
are not self -enforcing. Some states act in ways contrary to it. When a state engages in significant 
destructive, disruptive, or otherwise destabilizing malicious cyber activity contrary to the 
framework, responsible states must cooperate to hold that irresponsible state accountable.  
Digital solidarity in this context is demonstrated by sustained mutual support and coordinated 
campaigns. The United States and its partners share cyber threat information to help build 
resilience to and disrupt malicious activities; show solidarity to vic tims by helping respond to 
significant incidents, thereby signaling to adversaries they cannot isolate a target country 
through malicious operations; and ensure accountability for destructive, disruptive, and 
otherwise destabilizing cyber activities in con cert with likeminded countries. The United States 
and some allies also have affirmed the application to cyberspace of their respective mutual 
defense treaty obligations. In addition, the Department of State and other federal agencies are 
working with allie s and partners to disrupt ransomware and other criminal networks and 
safeguard democratic processes and institutions. Looking forward, the United States will 
continue efforts like these to advance responsible behavior in cyberspace, and counter threats 
to cyberspace and our critical infrastructure by building coalitions and engaging partners.  Page 42 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Line of Effort 1: Pursue Action -Oriented Discussions Focused on Norm  
Implementation at the UN 
Sustained engagement over almost two and a half decades and across four previous 
administrations has yielded a framework of responsible state behavior in cyberspace repeatedly 
supported by all members of the UN General Assembly, which affirms the applicabi lity of 
international law to states’ use of information and communication technologies, endorses 
adherence to voluntary norms of responsible state behavior in peacetime, and proposes 
practical confidence -building measures to help reduce the risk of conflic t stemming from cyber 
incidents. The framework is the core of our vision for a cyberspace in which states behave 
appropriately, manage the risk of unwanted escalation, hold bad actors accountable for 
irresponsible activities, and work together to respond t o and recover from significant cyber 
incidents. Implementation of these norms, however, is critical to their effectiveness.  
We will pursue more action -oriented discussions at the UN focused on how member states and 
institutions can work together to implement the framework’s essential elements and build all 
states’ capacity to manage cyber -related threats. To accommodate this ev olving conversation, 
the United States and its partners have proposed a more action -oriented forum, a Program of 
Action (POA), as a future permanent mechanism for dialogue on cyber issues related to 
international security at the UN. Designed to be flexible  enough to address future threats, with 
member states setting its direction over time, the POA will also incorporate the views of civil 
society, the private sector, and other non -state stakeholders.  
As part of advancing responsible state behavior in cyberspace, the United States and our 
partners will also continue to work together in regional security and other fora, such as the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation, Organization of American State s, and the ASEAN 
Regional Forum, to develop and implement cyber confidence building measures.  
  Page 43 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  UN Framework of  Responsible State Behavior  
 
Figure 4.  The list of the four components  can be found below. Four components that make up the UN framework of responsible 
state behavior in cyberspace. Australian Strategic Policy Institute/United Nations General Assembly illustration.  
Four Components that Make up the UN Framework of  Responsible State Behavior  in  
Cyberspace  
• International law applies to state conduct in cyberspace.  
• Eleven norms set clear expectations of responsible state behavior in peacetime.  
• Confidence -building measures strengthen transparency, predictability and stability.  
• Cyber capacity building to harness the benefits and mitigate the risks of increased 
connectivity.  
Page 44 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Line of Effort 2: Disrupt  and Build Resilience to Malicious State Activity  
Given the interconnected nature of cyberspace, international cooperation is crucial to deny, 
disrupt, and counter adversary activities in and through cyberspace.  
The Department of State leads efforts, including facilitating international outreach, to address 
the rising threat of disruptive or destructive cyberattacks on the critical infrastructure of the 
United States and its allies and partners. This includes shar ing through diplomatic channels joint 
cybersecurity advisories with the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and National Security Agency (NSA), and allies and 
partners on threats; capacity buildin g and information sharing with new and existing partners 
to mitigate cyber threats and ensure the resilience of their critical infrastructure; and using 
bilateral, multilateral, and other fora to clarify and communicate expectations about adherence 
to inte rnational law and the framework for responsible behavior in cyberspace. In addition, 
members of the Quad have developed joint principles for the cybersecurity of critical 
infrastructure and NATO members have committed to ensuring the resilience of critical  
infrastructure, enhanced protection of critical infrastructure through training and exercises, and 
shared intelligence on threats.  
As part of its counter adversary cyber activity, the Department of State provides foreign policy 
guidance and uses diplomatic engagements to support the Department of Defense (DoD)’s 
efforts to campaign in and through cyberspace below the level of armed co nflict to reinforce 
deterrence and frustrate adversaries. As laid out in the 2023 DoD Cyber Strategy, U.S. Cyber 
Command continues to defend forward to discover, expose, and protect against the sources of 
malicious cyber activities and to reinforce respons ible state behavior by encouraging adherence 
to international law and internationally recognized cyberspace norms. The DoD Cyber Strategy 
also notes that cyber operations are most effective when used in concert with other 
instruments of national power, inc luding diplomatic engagement and cyber capacity building.  
The Department of State, in close coordination with interagency and international partners, will 
continue to organize and execute sustained diplomatic pressure campaigns to raise 
international and public awareness of significant cyber threats and to increa se the costs and Page 45 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  risks to malicious cyber actors. For example, the United States has worked with allies, partners, 
and the private sector to disrupt DPRK revenue -generation efforts through cybercrime, crypto 
theft, and IT workers. U.S. Cyber Command, NSA, DHS, DOJ, and the  FBI have exposed North 
Korean malware, seized malicious cyber infrastructure, seized cryptocurrency and fiat currency, 
and shared actionable threat intelligence with the private sector. The Department of State 
coordinates action with the Republic of Korea  through a bilateral DPRK Cyber Working Group, 
including information sharing and policy coordination. Also, the United States, Japan, and the 
Republic of Korea coordinate efforts to counter DPRK cyber threats through a trilateral working 
group announced du ring the Camp David Summit in August 2023. The Department of State has 
also briefed officials around the world on threats posed by DPRK IT workers and cyber actors 
and deployed foreign assistance funds to build capacity to detect and defend against DPRK 
cyber and crypto threats.  
Line of Effort 3: Support Allies and Partners Amid Malicious Activity  
A core element of digital solidarity is standing with partners when they are impacted by 
significant disruptive or destabilizing cyber incidents. The Department of State will continue to 
work with allies and partners – through our embassies on the ground a nd our cyber experts in 
Washington – to coordinate appropriate support during the investigation, mitigation, and 
recovery from such cyber incidents. This support can include, as appropriate, the provision of 
advice by embassy cyber experts; facilitation of  remote or on -the-ground investigative, hunt, 
and malware analysis activities; foreign assistance projects; or coordination of cyber assistance 
efforts with partner countries. The Department of State views such activities as critical to 
strengthen collecti ve cyber defense and resilience and to help countries resist cyberattacks 
aimed at coercing them or otherwise interfering with their sovereignty.  
Line of Effort 4: Hold Irresponsible States  Accountable  
To constrain our adversaries effectively and counter malicious activities below the threshold of 
armed conflict, we will continue to work with our allies and partners to condemn this activity 
and impose meaningful consequences. These efforts use all the to ols of statecraft, including 
diplomatic isolation, law enforcement, counter -cyber operations, and economic sanctions. In 
September 2019, 27 countries publicly pledged in a U.S. -led Joint Statement on Advancing Page 46 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace to collaborate voluntarily to hold states accountable 
when they act contrary to the framework. The number of states willing to publicly hold states 
accountable reached 39 in July 2021 when NATO, the EU, Australia, C anada, New Zealand, the 
United Kingdom, and Japan all publicly condemned the PRC’s involvement in the Microsoft 
Exchange server data breach incident and other malicious cyber activities. More recently, 
likeminded coalitions attributed Russia’s cyberattack on Viasat’s KA -SAT satellite 
communications network on the eve of its invasion of Ukraine and stood in solidarity with 
Albania in the wake of Iran’s disruptive cyber operations. The United States will continue to 
work to expand the coalition of those willi ng to hold states accountable for disruptive and 
destabilizing cyber activity and to utilize appropriate multilateral groupings to support each 
other and to assist the victims of such behavior.  
Line of Effort 5: Affirm  Application of  Mutual Defense Treaties with Certain Allies  
to the Cyber Domain  
In line with the long -standing U.S. recognition that existing international law applies in 
cyberspace, obligations under treaties and other international agreements may apply in 
cyberspace. Over the past several years, the United States and certain allies have made public 
statements affirming the application in cyberspace of obligations in their respective mutual 
defense treaties, including the 1951 Security Treaty between Australia, New Zealand and the 
United States (ANZUS) (2011); the North Atlantic Treat y (2014); the Treaty of Mutual 
Cooperation and Security between the United States and Japan (2019); and the Mutual Defense 
Treaty between the United States and the Republic of Korea (2023). The Departments of State 
and Defense will continue to work togethe r with allies to engage in pre -contingency planning 
and to raise awareness further with alliance partners that existing mutual defense treaties may 
apply in cyberspace and that cyberattacks rising to the level of an armed attack may trigger 
mutual defense obligations under such treaties.  Page 47 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy   
Figure 5. The Second International Counter Ransomware Initiative Summit November 2022; Vice President Kamala Harris center 
left and Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology Anne Neuberger center right with leaders from 
Australia, Austria, B elgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Estonia, France, Germany, 
India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lithuania, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, Republ ic of 
Korea, Rom ania, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, and 
Ukraine, and the European Union.  
U.S. Department of State photo.  
Line of Effort 6: Counter Criminal and Ransomware Actors  
For many countries, the greatest risk to their digital security and economies is online scams, 
criminal hacking, and other financial crimes. Ransomware in particular has emerged in recent 
years as a clear threat to national security, public safety, and eco nomic prosperity. Operating 
from safe havens like the PRC, DPRK, Iran, Russia, and certain other countries, ransomware 
operators have disrupted government services, hospitals, schools, pipeline operations, and civil 
society entities. With some states using  ransomware actors as proxies or turning a blind eye to 
their activities and the significant impact of their cyberattacks on critical infrastructure, it is 
increasingly clear that ransomware activity can threaten international peace and security. Digital 
solidarity is clearly expressed through the Department of State’s efforts to leverage its 
Page 48 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  diplomatic capabilities to support the whole -of-government fight against ransomware and other 
forms of cybercrime, including by building partner capacity; developing coalitions to prevent, 
disrupt, and punish criminal behavior; and fostering cooperation wi th the private sector.  
The Departments of State, Homeland Security, and Justice will continue to participate in the U.S. 
Joint Ransomware Task Force and to partner with private industry and international allies to 
disrupt online criminal infrastructure and resources, take down b otnets, and seize 
cryptocurrency garnered from ransomware campaigns. For example, the U.S. Transnational and 
High -Tech Crime Global Law Enforcement Network (GLEN) program —a long -standing 
partnership between the Departments of State and Justice —is a global law enforcement 
capacity -building network of DOJ International Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property 
(ICHIP) regional advisors, computer forensic analysts, and federal law enforcement agents. 
Twelve ICHIP attorney advisors are located around the world . The ICHIP advisor based in The 
Hague facilitated cooperation among the United States, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the 
United Kingdom, Romania, and Latvia in the largest ever takedown of the botnet and malware 
known as Qakbot in August 2023. The net work also delivers training and technical assistance to 
foreign law enforcement partners, prosecutors, and judicial authorities to combat intellectual 
property theft and cybercrime activity, as well as to assist in the collection and use of electronic 
evid ence to combat all types of crime. The program improves U.S. security by reducing the use 
of foreign computing infrastructure for malicious activities targeting U.S. networks and by 
showing that no malicious actor can evade the rule of law.  
The GLEN has stood up five regional cryptocurrency working groups around the globe, which 
are dedicated to information sharing and capacity building to address criminal misuse of 
cryptocurrency, including in ransomware. Additional priorities for capacity b uilding include 
Internet fraud and combating the growing scourge of online child sexual exploitation and abuse.  
The Department of State will continue to use its diplomatic engagements and capacity building 
to broaden and strengthen participation in the International Counter Ransomware Initiative 
(CRI). The CRI is a unique and geographically diverse coalition of near ly 60 countries, plus 
multilateral institutions such as the European Union, Interpol, and Organization of American 
States, committed to building collective resilience to ransomware, cooperating to disrupt Page 49 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  ransomware and pursue the actors responsible, countering the illicit finance that underpins the 
ransomware ecosystem, and working with the private sector to defend against ransomware 
attacks. As a complement to the CRI, the Department of State, in coordina tion with the U.S. 
Joint Ransomware Task Force, will continue to develop bilateral and multilateral efforts 
designed to discourage states from sponsoring ransomware or permitting their territories to be 
used as safe havens by cyber criminals.  
The work of the CRI supports the implementation of the framework for responsible state 
behavior in cyberspace, including the voluntary norm that “states should respond to 
appropriate requests for assistance by another state whose critical infrastructures a re subject to 
malicious ICT acts,” in addition to “appropriate requests to mitigate malicious ICT activity aimed 
at the critical infrastructure of another State emanating from their territory, taking into account 
due regard for sovereignty.”4 
Line of Effort 7: Safeguard Democratic Processes and Institutions  
With more than 70 countries and nearly half the world’s population experiencing elections in 
2024, their vulnerability to cyber -enabled interference —including potential cyberattacks that 
disrupt electoral processes; espionage, surveillance, and intimidatio n of politicians, activists, 
and journalists; and cyber -enabled malign influence activities that seek to impact election 
outcomes and undermine public confidence in elections —is particularly acute. The United 
States has highlighted publicly and in internati onal engagements that it considers election 
infrastructure to be part of critical infrastructure. It has also noted some states’ efforts to use 
cyber means to destabilize democratic processes. The United States, allies, and partners will 
continue to expos e and defend against malicious operations designed to destabilize democratic 
processes and societies, including by sharing threat information and strengthening the 
resilience of election commissions and other key institutions. The United States, for exampl e, 
joined a United Kingdom -led effort in 2023 to call out Russia -backed online influence actors and 
hackers for operations targeting UK politicians and democratic processes. This diplomatic effort 
 
4 UN, Secretary General, “Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and  
Telecommunications in the Context of International Security, ” July 2015  Page 50 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  was accompanied by the Department of Justice concurrently announcing criminal charges 
against two of the responsible actors.  
Line of Effort 8: Combat the Proliferation and Misuse of Commercial Spyware  
The proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware poses a significant threat to both U.S. 
national security —including counterintelligence interests —and to democratic values and 
human rights around the globe by enabling the surveillance, repression, and targeting of 
journalists, human rights defend ers, anti -corruption activists, and other civil society members. 
In March 2023, President Biden signed an executive order limiting U.S. government operational 
use of commercial spyware that poses significant counterintelligence or security risks to the 
United States, or significant risks of improper use, including committing human rights abuses, by 
a foreign government or foreign person. At the same time, the Department of State launched a 
Joint Statement on Efforts to Counter the Proliferation and Misuse o f Commercial Spyware with 
10 other countries committed to undertaking concrete efforts to counter the misuse and 
proliferation of commercial spyware, which an additional 6 countries joined in March 2024.  
Moving forward, the U.S. government will continue to work to disincentivize misuse and 
positively reshape the commercial spyware market by driving out or encouraging reform by 
businesses associated with the misuse of these tools. The Department of State wi ll continue to 
engage diplomatically to urge the countries that have already joined the Joint Statement to take 
concrete steps to counter the misuse and proliferation of commercial spyware, induce 
additional countries to join, and persuade countries that m isuse or enable the misuse of 
spyware to implement safeguards to deviate less from U.S. policy. The Department of State will 
continue to partner with the Departments of Commerce and Treasury to promote accountability 
for those who misuse —or enable or benefi t from the misuse —of commercial spyware through 
tools like sanctions, visa restrictions, and export controls. In addition, the Department of State 
will continue to elevate this issue in multilateral and public forums as well as engage closely 
with civil s ociety, journalists, tech platforms, and the investment community.  Page 51 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  ACTION AREA 4: Strengthen and Build International Partner Digital  
Policy and Cyber Capacity  
Digital and cyber capacity building activities are powerful signs of digital solidarity in action. 
They assist partners build secure, diverse, and resilient ICT infrastructure and grow global 
markets for interoperable, secure ICT goods and services. They a re also critical for emerging 
economies to achieve the SDGs.  
Adversaries, and the PRC in particular, understand this and look to out -match the United States 
and like -minded partners by offering holistic support for ICT development from full package 
training programs to higher -level education and scholarships. The De partment of State, working 
with other federal agencies, international allies and partners, and the private sector, seeks to 
mobilize technology as well as processes and people in support of our partners’ economic and 
development goals. This assistance ofte n has a catalytic effect, encouraging partner countries to 
prioritize and invest further in cybersecurity and resilience. It also increases understanding of 
the benefits of the cybersecurity and digital policy approaches advocated by the United States.  
In an effort to increase digital solidarity in the realm of foreign assistance, USAID launched the 
Donor Principles for Human Rights in the Digital Age in partnership with Canada's International 
Development Research Centre (IDRC), and in collaboration with  the Department of State. These 
principles - endorsed by 38 partner governments - offer a unified framework and set of 
benchmarks to promote an inclusive, rights -respecting approach to foreign assistance on digital 
issues.  
To achieve our goals, we must work to ensure we can act quickly and effectively in supporting 
foreign partners’ needs for incident response, trusted infrastructure development, and capacity 
building.  
Line of Effort 1: Support and Expand Digital Policy , Legal , and Regulatory   
Capacity Building Efforts  
For digital infrastructure to reach and effectively serve the public, countries need to have the 
appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks . It is not enough to promote secure, resilient Page 52 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  technology infrastructure; an effective regulatory framework that is transparent, flexible, and 
technology neutral must be in place to ensure meaningful connectivity. Thus, U.S. f oreign 
assistance  focuses on developing and strengthening relevant l egislative and regulatory 
frameworks  as well as  building local technical capacity  and addressing workforce issues . 
The Department of State will continue to provide partners the expertise and training they need 
to develop and govern secure, rights -respecting digital ecosystems. Through technical 
assistance, ICT and telecom policy capacity building, and t raining grants , DCCP has facilitated 
pro-competitive legal and regulatory reforms . For example, Promoting American Approaches to 
ICT Policy and Regulation (ProICT) , another DCCP activity led by  the Department of State and 
USAID  , has helped clear the way for new entrants in to 5G markets and provided technical 
advisory support for a 5G spectrum auction.  
The Department of State, USAID, NTIA, and FCC, working with industry and the private sector, 
will continue to provide training programs and technical assistance to developing country 
officials involved in managing spectrum, deploying wireless and satellite technologies, and 
acquiring cloud services.  
Line of Effort 2: Augment Partner Cyber Capacity Building Efforts  
 
Figure 6. The data from this map is found in Table 1  below.  A global map  of the Digital Connectivity & Cybersecurity Partnership 
activities (2018 -2024).  
Page 53 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Table 1: Attendees per Region of  Cyber and Digital Training Programs Since 2018  
DoS Regions  Attendees per Region  
African Affairs  420 
East Asian and Pacific Affairs  183 
European and Eurasian Affairs  375 
Near Eastern Affairs  177 
South and Central Asian Affairs  78 
Western Hemisphere Affairs  919 
Total  2,152  Page 54 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Cyber capacity building efforts —which usually focus on strengthening a nation’s ability to adopt 
and develop cyber policies and strategies or improving their technical ability to detect, respond 
to, and recover from cyber incidents —have a direct and positive impact on international cyber 
stability and the secu rity of U.S. citizens. Assistance directed at policy - and strategy -making 
increases states’ credibility and engagement in international discussions. It provides them with 
the national -level capabilities needed to implement the norms developed under the fra mework 
for responsible state behavior in cyberspace, to conform with the standards of the Budapest 
Cybercrime Convention, to hold irresponsible actors accountable in cyberspace, and to develop 
a national -level approach to counter persistent cyber threats a nd build long -term resilience. 
Improving partner operational capabilities makes it more likely they will be able to combat 
transnational cybercrime threats, share useful cyber threat and incident information with the 
United States, and successfully partner  with the United States in operations to disrupt malicious 
cyber activity.  
Over the last two decades, the Department of State has collaborated with other agencies, 
international partners, regional organizations, and the private sector to build cyber capacity 
abroad. Officials and private sector professionals from around the world  participate in 
workshops on industrial control systems held with CISA. The United States assists efforts by the 
Organization of American States in areas such as cyber incident response, national cybersecurity 
strategy development and implementation, cyber security awareness, and cyber workforce 
development. The United States is a leading donor to Council of Europe programs designed to 
expand adoption of the Budapest Cybercrime Convention. The Global Forum on Cyber Expertise 
(GFCE), of which the United State s is a founding and active member, provides a global platform 
to connect cyber policymakers, practitioners, and experts and to match assistance programs 
with recipients.  
Multiple agencies have supported international partners in using and adapting the NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework, and the Department of State has supported international 
participation in the development of version 2.0 of the framework. The NICE Workforce 
Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE Framework) has been leveraged to support talent 
development and management. The Department of Commerce, NIST, USAID, and the Page 55 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Department of State will engage international partners to promote the development of critical 
and emerging technology standards in areas such as best practices regarding data capture, 
processing, privacy, handling, and analysis; trustworthiness, verificati on, and assurance of AI 
systems and AI risk management; and content authentication and provenance, synthetic 
content detection, and content labeling. In addition, NIST has selected four algorithms designed 
to withstand cyberattacks by quantum computers and  is developing standards for U.S. 
Government use. The Department of State will work with NIST to internationalize – including 
through ongoing engagements in international standards bodies – these post quantum 
cryptography standards so that organizations ar ound the world can integrate them into their 
encryption infrastructure. They will also continue engaging international partners in developing 
and implementing cybersecurity best practices in areas such as Zero Trust, IoT cybersecurity, 
digital identity, op erational technology, software security, and supply chain risk management.  
 
Page 56 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  Figure 7. The data from this map is found in Table 2  below. A global map of the Digital Connectivity & Cybersecurity Partnership 
countries benefitting from Cyber & Digital Training (2018 -2024)  
Table 2: Countries Benefitting from Cyber and Digital Training Programs Since 2018  
DoS Regions  Countries per Region  
African Affairs  35 
East Asian and Pacific Affairs  23 
European and Eurasian Affairs  29 
Near Eastern Affairs  12 
South and Central Asian Affairs  11 
Western Hemisphere Affairs  30 
Total  140 
The Department of State will continue coordinating closely with DoD, DOJ, DHS, CISA, NIST, 
NTIA, USAID, Department of Treasury, Department of Energy, Department of Commerce, and 
other federal agencies to help ensure that multiple streams of capacity buildi ng feed into and 
support strategic interests.  Page 57 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy   
Figure 8. (Left) Nathaniel C. Fick U.S. Ambassador at Large for Cyberspace and Digital Policy, (center) Rodrigo Chaves Robles 
President of Costa Rica, (right) Anne Neuberger Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology at a Center 
for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) event on August 30, 2023. CSIS photo.  
Line of Effort 3: Develop New Tools to Deliver Digital and Cyber Assistance  
Quickly and Efficiently  
The demand for cybersecurity and cybercrime assistance, in particular cyber defense, incident 
response, and skills to combat criminal misuse of cryptocurrency, is growing in scale. After 
cyberattacks against Ukraine, Costa Rica, and Albania, the United Sta tes and its allies shared 
threat intelligence; facilitated operational collaboration; enabled access to commercial 
cybersecurity companies’ services, including hardware, software, and embedded technical 
support; and funded longer term capacity building.  
From these and other cases, the State Department has learned the importance of regular and 
close coordination across the U.S. government and with international partners, as well as the 
importance of mobilizing private -sector technology and expertise. Moder nizing authorities and 
mechanisms to provide technology -related foreign assistance at the speed and scale necessary 
Page 58 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  is crucial. We must adapt our foreign assistance resources and authorities to support long -term 
U.S. leadership and foster digital solidarity.  
Recognizing the urgent and growing need for additional tools to advance U.S. cyber and digital 
foreign policy, Congress created, through the Department of State Authorization Act of 2023 
and funded, through the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Program 
Appropriations Act, 2024, the Cyberspace, Digital Connectivity, and Related Technologies Fund. 
This fund will provide the Department of State with authorities and dedicated funding to 
support strategically important cyber, digital, and tech nology -related foreign assistance 
programs. This is a significant step in advancing U.S. foreign policy. The Department will work to 
operationalize and implement these new authorities.  
Ukraine  
The United States, allies, and partners have invested in Ukrainian cyber capacity building for 
years, providing a foundation for more immediate assistance in mitigating and recovering from 
attacks. Before Russia’s full -scale invasion of Ukraine, U.S. agencies, including the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Cyber Command, and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency, shared cyber intelligence with Ukrainian partners. Since the invasion, the 
United States,  United Kingdom, and EU Governments have delivered more than $100 million in 
cyber foreign assistance and enabled Ukrainian agencies to access the services of commercial 
cybersecurity companies. In 2023, the U.S. and nine close partners estab lished the Tallinn 
Mechanism, a donor coordination group that aims to deliver assistance quickly and efficiently in 
support of Ukraine’s most urgent cybersecurity needs.  
Costa Rica  
Following a year of repeated ransomware attacks on Costa Rica’s government networks that 
impacted critical services such as health care, tax collection, and customs , and resulted in a 
national emergency, the United States announced an $25 million assistance package to address 
immediate critical cyber vulnerabilities, including hardware, software, licenses, and embedded 
technical support. Working with the Costa Rican M inistry of Science, Innovation, Technology, 
and Telecommunications, the United States helpe d establish and equip a centralized security Page 59 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  operations center to monitor, prevent, detect, investigate, and respond to cyber threats. The 
United States is also supporting medium - and longer -term technical projects and workforce 
development to help Costa Rica develop a secure, resilient, and locally sustainable cyber 
ecosystem.  
Albania  
In the case of Albania, after a request from the prime minister in July 2022, the U.S. rapidly 
deployed technical teams in response to a destructive cyberattack, which featured ransomware 
and wiper malware against public sector networks, including some Alb ania had designated as 
critical infrastructure. The U.S. government and the private sector attributed the attack to Iran, 
and the State Department coordinated a diplomatic campaign that included U.S. sanctions and 
NATO and EU statements of condemnation. Af ter these more immediate responses, the State 
Department turned to longer -term capacity building, including implementing over $50 million 
in U.S. assistance to civilian and military agencies to harden their networks. International 
partners such as the UK a nd EU have also provided cybersecurity assistance. U.S. agencies, 
including the Department  of State , Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Cyber Command, and 
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency continue to collaborate with Albanian 
cyber a uthorities following subsequent smaller scale cyberattacks in 2023 and 2024.  
Conclusion  
As the NSS and NCS note, the 2020s are a decisive decade, and actions taken now will shape the 
contours of cyberspace, digital technologies, and the digital economy for the future. As it 
implements this strategy, the Department of State will work with Congress and interagency 
partners to evaluate current cyber authorities and to amend or create authorities as needed for 
the Department to keep pace with  evolving cyber and digital technologies.  
Building innovative, secure, and rights -respecting digital ecosystems is a process that will extend 
beyond the timespan of this strategy, and likely to be characterized by progress, pauses, and 
reversals. There will be, however, some early signposts that w ill indicate the United States, 
allies, and partners are moving forward.  Page 60 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  • First , the United States, allies, and partners, along with the private sector and civil 
society, will build on the early successes of the G7 -Hiroshima Code of Conduct, the 
Biden -Harris Executive Order on AI, and the UK AI Safety Summit. We will reach 
consensus on guiding principles that foster innovation and the development of 
responsible AI as well as make significant investments to build the knowledge and 
infrastructure necessary to measure, evaluate, and verify advanced AI systems, including 
through the launch of the U.S. AI Safety Institute. We will advance global norms on the 
responsible and rights -respecting use of AI -enabled technologies.  
• Second , the United States allies, and partners, along with the private sector, will develop 
common understandings and shared principles for security and trustworthiness in 
subsea cable, cloud services, and data centers and will increase support for extending 
access to cloud services to emerging economies.  
• Third , the United States, allies, and partners will succeed in pushing forward more 
action -oriented discussions at the UN on international security issues in cyberspace. 
These discussions will focus on how member states can work together to implement 
critical e lements of the framework for responsible state behavior and on building all 
states’ capacity to manage cyber -related threats.  
• Fourth , the Department of State will draw on the Cyberspace, Digital Connectivity, and 
Related Technologies Fund to provide rapid incident response and cyber aid quickly and 
effectively, as well as longer -term capacity and resilience building. These strategic 
investments will not only strengthen the role of the United States as a digital partner, 
but also generate larger, self -sustaining investments by host countries in their own 
cybersecurity and digital transformation.  
Moving forward, the United States will strive for a future in which cyberspace and digital 
technologies are used to advance economic prosperity and inclusion, enhance security, 
promote and protect human rights and democracy, and address transnational chall enges. The 
Department of State will build and extend digital solidarity to partners across the globe. The 
United States recognizes the need to work together to align approaches to data and digital Page 61 of 61 
United States International Cyberspace & Digital Policy Strategy  governance and to promote the research, development, and deployment of critical and 
emerging technologies. The United States seeks to be the partner of choice in improving 
cybersecurity, building resilience, responding to, and recovering from malicious cyb er activity. 
Digital solidarity aims to connect people and information like never before, fostering a more 
inclusive, secure, prosperous, rights -respecting, safe, and equitable world.  