January 26, 2022 Aviation Concerns Regarding the Rollout of 5G Wireless Telecommunications Networks The rollout of fifth-generation 5G wireless an onboard receiver. Radar altimeters provide input to telecommunications networks in the United States has aircraft terrain alerting systems that provide pilots with roiled passenger and cargo airlines and other aviation information and warnings about terrain and obstacle operators over fears that certain mid-band or C-band 5G clearance. Radar altimeters also provide data to automated signals could interfere with aircraft radio altimeters. These flight control systems used for vertical flight guidance at concerns prompted the Federal Aviation Administration low altitude, especially during approach to landing. While FAA to issue alerts to aircraft operators in late 2021 about airplanes can rely on other systems, including precision possible flight safety risks. FAA asked aircraft operators for instrument landing systems, to descend to about 200 feet related data, urged them to educate pilots about potential above the ground, radar altimeters are essential to providing disruptions, and prohibited certain flight procedures as a vertical guidance below 200 feet in low-visibility safety precaution. At the urging of FAA, the Department of conditions when pilots are unable to clearly see the runway. Transportation, the White House, and some Members of While such capabilities are essential for all-weather Congress, telecommunications companies agreed to commercial flight operations, radar altimeters are not voluntarily delay the rollout of 5G service near airports, commonly found on small general aviation aircraft. originally scheduled for early December 2021, until July 2022, to avoid air travel disruptions. This will give FAA FAA, along with aviation regulators from other countries, and avionics equipment manufacturers additional time to first raised concerns about wireless deployments in the C- more thoroughly assess whether C-band 5G signals might band in 2015. They cautioned that 5G signals transmitted interfere with flight operations and whether equipment on nearby frequencies could potentially interfere with radio upgrades or other mitigation actions will be needed to altimeters, particularly if high-powered 5G base stations are adequately shield aircraft systems from 5G interference. placed close to airport runways. Although not required by regulation, most radio altimeters currently in use have mask Radiofrequency Spectrum and 5G Signals filters to block signals on nearby frequencies that could be 5G networks are being installed all around the world, but mistaken for reflected radio altimeter signals. However, it is are being assigned different frequency bands in different uncertain whether these filters will adequately block more countries. While low-band below 1 gigahertz GHz and powerful 5G signals in all cases. high-band above 24 GHz 5G frequencies are not the focus of current concerns raised by FAA and aviation A study by RTCA, an aviation industry technical advisory stakeholders, the assignment of C-band frequencies in the group founded as the Radio Technical Commission for range of roughly 3 to 5 GHz has alarmed the aviation Aeronautics, concluded that expected interference levels industry over potential interference with radio altimeters. from fundamental 5G emissions in the 3.7-3.98 GHz range Europe has allocated spectrum between 3.4 and 3.8 GHz for and spurious or stray 5G emissions that bleed over into the C-band 5G, while in Japan, frequencies from 3.4 to 4.1 4.2-4.4 GHz band were likely to exceed safe interference GHz are assigned. In the United States, the Federal limits for all envisioned 5G transmitter configurations Communications Commission FCC approved use of across all categories of airplanes and helicopters equipped spectrum between 3.7 and 3.98 GHz for 5G in 2020, and with radio altimeters. Moreover, it determined that stray 5G subsequently auctioned licenses in this band to emissions that might bleed over into the band reserved for telecommunications providers. U.S. providers paid over radio altimeters would not be considered compliant with 81 billion for C-band licenses, and are eager to launch international recommendations for radiofrequency service in order to recoup these costs and realize a return on protection criteria. investment in 5G technology that will give wireless customers faster data transmission speeds and greater The FCC countered that the RTCA findings assume a reliability than fourth-generation 4G wireless service. worse-case scenario, and that alternative testing found that FCC-mandated protections, including limits on the strength Potential Interference with Radio Altimeters of 5G signals and 220 MHz of spectral separation between Worldwide, aviation operators have long used a slice of 5G signals and radio altimeters, would mitigate the radiofrequency spectrum between 4.2 GHz and 4.4 GHz potential for interference. Further, the FCC argued that that is exclusively reserved for radio altimeters. These properly engineered radio equipment should not be prone to devices, frequently installed on airliners, regional and harmful interference from 5G signals. business jets, turboprops, advanced helicopters, and military aircraft measure aircraft altitude above the ground Near-Term Mitigation Actions by timing how long it takes for a directional radio Telecommunications providers voluntarily pushed back 5G transmission to reach the terrain below and bounce back to launch schedules from early December 2021 to January httpscrsreports.congress.gov Aviation Concerns Regarding the Rollout of 5G Wireless Telecommunications Networks 2022 to provide FAA with additional time to address radio paths. In the United States, however, 5G providers have altimeter interference concerns. As C-band 5G deployments been reluctant to agree to such measures, as they could were slated to launch in early January 2022, FAA initially reduce the availability and quality of 5G service in areas restricted the use of approach procedures and automated around airports. Moreover, reducing the power of these 5G landing system operations at 88 airports where it transmissions could give competitors that do not rely on determined that the presence of C-band 5G signals could these frequency bands a competitive advantage. pose a risk of radio altimeter interference. However, service providers subsequently agreed to voluntarily delay Potential Long-Range Resolution activation of 5G transmitters located close to airports until It will ultimately be up to FAA to decide whether existing July 5, 2022, thus creating temporary buffer zones around radio altimeter systems adequately protect against 5G airports during the first six months of the 5G rollout. If, interference or if new replacement units that meet future after this time, FAA decides to restrict certain flight operational performance standards will be required. As of procedures due to lingering 5G concerns, aircraft operators late January 2022, FAA has provisionally approved roughly could be forced to execute costly flight diversions in poor 90 of the U.S. commercial airline fleet equipped with weather or cancel flights of aircraft using radio altimeters radio altimeters to conduct low-visibility landings at not approved by FAA for low-visibility approaches in the airports with nearby 5G towers. presence of 5G. Despite agreements to create temporary 5G buffer zones around U.S. airports, some airlines, including FAA is working with industry groups led by RTCA and its some international airlines, canceled flights and modified Europe counterpart, the European Organization for Civil service in January 2022, apparently in response to Aviation Equipment or EUROCAE, to develop minimum continued uncertainty regarding possible disruptions to low- operational performance standards for future radio visibility operations over 5G interference concerns. altimeters that will not be susceptible to potentially harmful radiofrequency interference. Once these standards are Approaches in Other Countries established and adopted by FAA, manufacturers can begin Other countries, including Canada, have initially restricted to design, build, and supply units that are not prone to the installation of 5G transmitters near airports. The 5G potential impacts from C-band 5G. Replacement of radio rollout in Europe over the past three years has not generated altimeters, however, might prove costly to aircraft the same concerns from aviation, in part because the operators, including the military. The airline industry and approved frequencies have greater separation from radio other civilian operators might ask for federal relief if faced altimeter bands than in the United States, reducing the with significant costs to upgrade radio altimeters. likelihood of interference. Moreover, some European countries, notably France, have insisted that The potential impacts of 5G are not limited to operations telecommunications providers implement additional around airports. Helicopters responding to medical mitigation measures to reduce potential conflicts between emergencies also rely on radio altimeters when landing to 5G signals and radio altimeters, including restricting power pick up patients. Citing the critical societal importance of output of 5G towers, restricting placement of 5G antennas helicopter emergency medical operations, FAA has granted in buffer zones near airports, and requiring that 5G antennas temporary regulatory relief from radio altimeter near airports be tilted downward to reduce the likelihood of requirements for medical helicopters conducting night interference with flight operations see Figure 1. vision goggle operations, so long as ground observers remain in radio contact with pilots to guide them regarding Figure 1. Comparing 5G Source Mitigation in France terrain and obstacle clearance around landing zones. This and the United States exemption expires in 2024, at which point medical helicopters may also need upgraded radio altimeters. Lingering Policy Implications The ongoing concerns over potential aviation safety impacts from the 5G rollout in the United States point to broader concerns that may be of particular interest to Congress. These include coordination between FAA and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the federal agency that represents federal agency spectrum concerns to the FCC FAAs relationship with other regulatory agencies such as the FCC and FAAs ability to address complex challenges brought about by the proliferation of wireless technologies and the rapidly Source Federal Aviation Administration. evolving technical landscape in which aviation must operate. In Japan, where frequencies up to 4.1 GHz allocated for 5G are even closer to radio altimeter frequencies than in the Bart Elias, Specialist in Aviation Policy United States, the government has restricted the placement of 5G transmitters within 200 meters of airport approach IF12028 httpscrsreports.congress.gov Aviation Concerns Regarding the Rollout of 5G Wireless Telecommunications Networks Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service CRS. CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRSs institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material. httpscrsreports.congress.gov  IF12028  VERSION 4  NEW