Updated June 7, 2023 FEMA Assistance Limited English Proficiency and Equity Individuals with Limited English Proficiency LEP often FEMA Regulations and Agency Notices encounter disproportionate risk during hazards as well as FEMA issued regulations implementing statutory civil barriers to federal relief. Statute requires the Federal rights obligations for federal disaster relief at 44 C.F.R. Emergency Management Agency FEMA the lead agency 206.11 and 44 C.F.R. Part 7. Per these regulations, entities for domestic emergency management to ensure that receiving most forms of FEMA assistance e.g., SLTTs and disaster relief reaches individuals with LEP. This In Focus nonprofits may not discriminate against individuals on the summarizes select risks that language barriers impose basis of national origin, among other grounds, when during hazard response and recovery e.g., evacuation and administering such relief LEP is not explicitly mentioned. sheltering, federal authorities addressing disaster relief for FEMA may refuse or terminate financial assistance in cases individuals with LEP, and recent policy proposals to of noncompliance. Additionally, neither federal personnel enhance the delivery of federal relief for such individuals. nor agencies may discriminate against individuals when providing federal disaster assistance. Language BarriersSelect Risks In 2011, the Department of Homeland Security DHS Language barriers may exacerbate the effects of hazards released guidance for agency components, including FEMA and hinder relief efforts in the following ways 2011 DHS Notice 76 Federal Register 21755. The  Individuals with LEP may not understand evacuation guidance 1 details federal assistance recipients notices or instructions, raising the risk of casualty. responsibilities to ensure access to individuals with LEP  Individuals with LEP may not understand emergency and 2 explains how DHS evaluates compliance. relief providers, impeding access to emergency medical Federal Communications Commission FCC care, sheltering assistance, and key relief commodities. State and local agencies can send emergency alerts through  Individuals with LEP may not understand federal aid FEMAs Integrated Public Alert and Warning System applications, written guidance, and oral instructions, IPAWS, which distributes alerts via radio, television, cell deterring or delaying their requests for relief or yielding phones, and other means. FEMA coordinates with the insufficient awards. FEMA reports that it can provide Federal Communications Commission FCC, which some assistance in English and Spanish, and contracts regulates commercial broadcast and mobile service for assistance in additional languages, though some providers that elect to participate in emergency alerting. translations may be inaccurate or unintelligible. The FCC has adopted rules for the Emergency Alert System  Officials with LEP in state, local, tribal, and territorial EAS, which delivers alerts via television and radio 47 governments SLTTs and nonprofits may not C.F.R. Part 11, and the Wireless Emergency Alerts WEA understand relief instructions and procedures, inhibiting system, used by mobile service providers to send alerts to the delivery of critical assistance. cell phones 47 C.F.R. Part 10. FCC mandates that EAS broadcasters providing foreign language programming Key Authorities should transmit EAS announcements in the primary Relevant Statutes language of the EAS participant 47 C.F.R. 11.55c4. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 requires recipients The FCC also requires EAS participants to report actions of federal assistance to ensure that persons with LEP have taken or planned to reach non-English-speaking audiences meaningful access to such assistance. Additionally, Section to help states acquire information on how best to 308 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and disseminate multilingual alerts 47 C.F.R. 11.55d. In Emergency Assistance Act the Stafford Act, P.L. 93-288, 2016, the FCC adopted WEA rules 47 C.F.R. 10.480 as amended requires the issuance of regulations ensuring requiring wireless service providers to transmit WEA alerts the provision of disaster relief without discrimination, issued in Spanish, or that contain Spanish-language including based on English proficiency. characters, to cell phone users who specify Spanish as their preferred language. Local government officials and LEP In 2006, the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform stakeholders have urged the FCC to improve multilingual Act PKEMRA, P.L. 109-295 amended the Stafford Act. It EAS and WEA alerting. In February 2023, a letter signed required the FEMA Administrator to 1 work with SLTTs by 45 Members from both chambers of Congress urged the to identify LEP populations and ensure that they are FCC to expand the number of WEA languages. In April incorporated into the disaster planning process, 2 ensure 2023, the FCC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that such populations could access disaster relief that would require providers that send WEA alerts to ensure information, and 3 develop and maintain a database on mobile devices can translate alerts into the 13 most successful language assistance programs that could be commonly spoken languages in the United States, and provided to SLTTs during an incident 42 U.S.C. 5196f. support American Sign Language and speech-to-text. The rules are pending. httpscrsreports.congress.gov FEMA Assistance Limited English Proficiency and Equity Executive Orders concurrent disasters require limited FEMA personnel to On August 11, 2000, President Clinton signed Executive deploy to multiple regions. FEMA may require additional Order E.O. 13166, Improving Access to English Services appropriations to support more bilingual permanent staff, for Persons with Limited English Proficiency, which short-term reservists, or translators, though some contracted requires federal agencies to examine the services they translations have been notably inaccurate. provide and develop and implement a system to provide individuals with LEP meaningful access to agency Recent Policy Recommendations services. The E.O. builds on the prohibitions on Federal Hiring for Language Competency discrimination due to national origin in Title VI of the Civil The 2022 inaugural report of President Joseph R. Bidens Rights Act of 1964, as amended. E.O. 13166 directs all Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native agencies providing federal financial assistance to prepare a Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders the Commission called Language Access Plan LAP to improve access to upon the Office of Personnel Management to provide programs by eligible individuals with LEP. The E.O. guidance on hiring bilingual staff, interpreters, and further directs the Department of Justice DOJ to oversee translators to federal agencies that directly provide federal agency compliance and consistency in implementation. disaster assistance. Other experts also recommended hiring Through DOJ guidance, agencies and recipients of federal local residents that share survivors cultures and languages. financial assistance must assess meaningful access to New Requirements for Federal Grantees their programs and activities through a four-factor analysis The Commissions report also called upon FEMA to revise 1. The number or proportion of individuals requirements for SLTTs receiving federal assistance. with LEP served or encountered in the Specifically, the Commission recommended that FEMA service population require such entities to identify LEP communities and detail 2. The frequency of contact with individuals how they will ensure meaningful access to federal relief in those communities. Currently, DHS recommends similar with LEP actions to establish compliance with federal civil rights 3. The nature and importance of the requirements see 2011 DHS Notice. The Commission program and suggested incorporating requirements into grant terms, 4. The agencys available resources. scoring methods, and notices of funding opportunities. DOJ explains, Applying the four factors, for example, a Incorporate LEP Communities into Planning small police department with limited resources Federal and nonfederal stakeholders and experts encountering very few LEP people has far fewer language recommend that preparedness and planning efforts include assistance responsibilities than larger departments with individuals with LEP and representative organizations to more resources and large populations of LEP individuals. ensure sufficient consideration of their needs. 66 Federal Register 3834. Direct Outreach to Affected Populations FEMA Policy and Guidance A recent coalition of groups representing disaster survivors In 2016, FEMA issued a LAP updated in 2023 to comply e.g., Ayuda Legal Puerto Rico recommended that FEMA with E.O. 13166. The LAP explains how FEMA conducts provide assistance notices and application guidance through assessments to identify affected LEP individuals following door-to-door campaigns to affected, hard-to-reach a Stafford Act declaration. The 2016 LAP reported that populations, particularly LEP individuals. FEMA supported FEMA releases some relevant information to disaster similar outreach efforts during the COVID-19 pandemic survivors in different languages based on these assessments, and Hurricane Ian. Some entities use commercial off-the- including Civil Rights Notices that acknowledge the right shelf alerting systems that offer multilingual alerting of individuals with LEP to receive accessible options. However, these systems often require people communication, and notice that FEMA can provide subscribe or opt-in and do not send alerts to non- interpreter services in up to 69 languages at certain subscribers, including individuals passing through an area. locations. FEMAs abbreviated 2023 LAP reported that the agency is to provide oral and written services to LEP Data on Language Outreach individuals, and notices of the availability of such services. FEMAs National Advisory Council an advisory body of representatives from SLTT governments, emergency Select Policy Issues management professionals and experts, and populations with special needs proposed that FEMA track the Establishing Trust Across Language Barriers languages used to reach survivors as part of an effort to Language barriers may undermine trust between disaster assess the equitability of different agency programs. survivors and emergency responders, jeopardizing evacuation and relief efforts. For example, some Erica A. Lee, Analyst in Emergency Management and immigrants with LEP may avoid government officials due Disaster Recovery to fears of immigration surveillance and enforcement. Meghan M. Stuessy, Analyst in Government Organization Implementation Gaps and FEMA Capacity and Management FEMAs bilingual workforce has sometimes fallen short of Elizabeth M. Webster, Analyst in Emergency demand in post-disaster areas. For example, FEMA did not Management and Disaster Recovery have sufficient Spanish-speaking staff to serve survivors in Jill C. Gallagher, Analyst in Telecommunications Policy Puerto Rico following Hurricane Mara GAO-18-472. Such shortfalls may be particularly common when IF12263 httpscrsreports.congress.gov FEMA Assistance Limited English Proficiency and Equity Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service CRS. CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRSs institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material. httpscrsreports.congress.gov  IF12263  VERSION 10  UPDATED