PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/CSRIC%205A%20Working%20Group.pdf:
September 2010 WORKING GROUP 5A
CAP Introduction
Final ReportThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief.........................................................................................................................3
1.1 Executive Summary........................................................................................................3
2 Introduction..............................................................................................................................4
2.1 CSRIC Structure.............................................................................................................4
2.2 Working Group 5A Team Members...............................................................................4
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology........................................................................................5
3.1 Objective.........................................................................................................................5
3.2 Scope...............................................................................................................................5
3.3 Methodology...................................................................................................................6
3.3.1 Sub-Group Structure.................................................................................................6
3.3.2 Collaboration via Portal............................................................................................6
4 Background..............................................................................................................................7
4.1 Emergency Alert System (EAS).....................................................................................7
4.1.1 State and Local CAP-based EAS Programs..............................................................7
4.1.2 Emerging Advanced EAS Capabilities.....................................................................8
4.1.3 State and Local EAS Plans.......................................................................................9
4.1.4 State and Local Emergency Communication Committees.....................................10
4.1.5 Training...................................................................................................................10
4.2 IPAWS..........................................................................................................................11
4.2.1 System Overview and Vision..................................................................................11
4.2.2 Current Schedule for 2012......................................................................................12
4.2.3 Common Alerting Protocol (CAP).........................................................................12
4.2.4 Geo-Targeted Alert System (GTAS)......................................................................13
4.3 Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS).................................................................13
5 Analysis, Findings, and Recommendations...........................................................................14
5.1 Revisions to Part 11 Rules............................................................................................15
5.2 Citizens with Disabilities..............................................................................................18
5.3 Citizens not Proficient in English.................................................................................20
5.4 Defining the CAP Standard..........................................................................................22
5.4.1 IPAWS CAP Profile...............................................................................................22
5.4.2 EAS-CAP Implementation Guide...........................................................................23
6 Conclusion..............................................................................................................................24
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) is a federal
advisory committee established to provide recommendations to the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) on how to ensure optimal security, reliability, and interoperability of
communications systems, including public safety, telecommunications, and media
communications. This includes, but is not limited to, recommending ways, including best
practices, to improve the Emergency Alert System (EAS) operations and testing, and to ensure
that all Americans, including those living in rural areas, the elderly, people with disabilities, and
people who do not speak English, have access to timely EAS alerts and other emergency
information. Pursuant to this mandate, Working Group 5A spent over six months researching,
analyzing, and evaluating a vast array of ideas, concepts, and themes on possible actions the
FCC could take to improve the EAS.
First, the working group found that widespread adoption of the Common Alerting Protocol
(CAP) would not only advance the EAS, but would ensure that all Americans, including those
with disabilities or non-English speaking individuals would have access to emergency
information. CAP is an XML-based data format for exchanging public warnings and
emergencies between alerting technologies. CAP allows a warning message to be consistently
disseminated simultaneously over many warning systems to many applications, thus simplifying
the task of activating a warning for responsible officials. To facilitate a seamless adoption of
CAP by all the EAS participants, this report recommends that the FCC revise its rules governing
the EAS to accommodate CAP; this includes extending the timeline by which all EAS
participants are expected to adopt CAP from 180 days to 300 days based on a number of factors
including FEMA’s adoption announcement.
Next, the working group determined that more than 14,000 broadcast stations and 10,000 cable
systems across the nation are required to follow both their state and local EAS plans during an
emergency. These plans specify the monitoring assignments for all broadcast stations and cable
systems within their respective state(s). This report recommends that the FCC ensure that state
and local governments update their EAS plans to accommodate CAP in a timely fashion.
As more people transition from traditional wireline phone systems and TTY to Internet-based
technologies as their primary means of communication, this working group believes that it is
important that these platforms continue to facilitate the delivery of emergency messages to
disabled citizens. This could be achieved through the development of a national relay center,
which disabled individuals could contact to learn more about a local event after receiving an
initial alert through traditional channels. Such a center should be a source of information for the
deaf and hard of hearing, the blind and visually impaired, caregivers in group homes, and people
with physical disabilities. The FCC should consider initiating a proceeding or hosting a
workshop to explore the feasibility of developing such a center.
Finally, given the growing multilingual population in the United States, this report recommends
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
that the responsibility for message translation from English to another language should like with
the message originators at this time. U.S. Census data and social science research could be used
to identify geographic areas with a high density of non-English speaking individuals that require
translation services. As language translation technology improves, going forward the
Commission should research methodologies employed by bilingual and multilingual countries
such as Canada, Israel, Belgium, to name a few.
2 Introduction
The FCC held the first meeting of the CSRIC in early December 2009. The CSRIC was
established as a federal advisory committee designed to provide recommendations to the
Commission regarding best practices and actions the Commission may take to ensure optimal
operability, security, reliability, and resiliency of communications systems, including
telecommunications, media, and public safety communications systems.
Due to the large scope of the CSRIC mandate, the committee then divided into a set of Working
Groups, each of which was designed to tackle individual issue areas. In total, 10 different
Working Groups were created, including Working Group 5A on the CAP Introduction.
Working Group 5A officially started its work in March 2010 and was given until September
2010 to produce this Final Report.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
2.2 Working Group 5A Team Members
Working Group 5A is comprised of 22 members, including its two Co-Chairs; Damon Penn of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Pat Roberts, of the Florida
Association of Broadcasters. Members come from a wide variety of private and public entities,
many of which possessed an extensive background in broadcasting and emergency messaging.
The FCC Liaison for Working Group 5A is Eric Ehrenreich.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
Name Company
Damon Penn, Co-Chair Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Pat Roberts, Co-Chair Florida Association of Broadcasters
Sam Asher Asher Group
Paul Brenner Emmis Communications
Leonard Charles Morgan Murphy Media, Midwest
Turner Clayton Jr. Seminole County, FL branch of NAACP
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics, Inc.
Brian Daly AT&T
J. Scott Enright Emmis Communications
Nneka Ezenwa Verizon
Robert Gabrielli DirecTV
Mike Gerber NOAA National Weather Service
Denis Gusty Department of Homeland Security
John Lawson Convergence Services
Marc Pucci Telcordia
Mary Retka Qwest
Mark Titus TeleCommunication Systems, Inc.
Scott Tollefsen USA Mobility (former General Counsel
Herbert White NOAA National Weather Service
Kelly Williams National Association of Broadcasters
Eric Ehrenreich FCC Liaison
Jean Ann Collins FCC Lead
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
In its May 2007 EAS Second Report and Order (EB Docket No. 04-296), the Commission
mandated that all EAS Participants must be capable of receiving a CAP-formatted EAS alert
within 180 days of an announcement by FEMA adopting CAP. The Commission noted that the
transformation of the EAS brought about by CAP would necessitate revisions to the
Commission’s Part 11 Rules governing the EAS. The Working Group was asked to provide the
proposed recommendations for revisions to the Part 11 Rules. The Working Group specifically
based its recommendations found in this Final Report on the Oasis-published CAP 1.21, and
included in their discussion both specific recommendations regarding rule changes and more
general comment and analysis regarding the appropriate Part 11 regulatory structure for a CAP-
based EAS. In this Final Report, the Working Group also recommended actions the FCC can
take to improve EAS access for people with disabilities and non-English speaking communities.
3.2 Scope
1 OASIS CAP 1.2 documents: http://docs.oasis-open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/CAP-v1.2-os.pdf
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
Per the Working Group 5A description, the group focused primarily on the FCC Part 11 Rules
governing the EAS.
3.3 Methodology
The 5A Working Group used a collaborative, inclusive approach to its work. Given the vast
array of expertise the 5A members brought to bear on this effort, it was critical to provide a
multitude of forums and mediums through which participants could express their opinions and
help shape this Final Report. The following section details the methodology through which 5A
achieved this objective.
3.3.1 Sub-Group Structure
After its initial set of meetings, the Co-Chairs of Working Group 5A decided to the review the
structure of the Working Group and develop a plan that would allow for 5A to proceed with its
study in an organized fashion which leveraged the diverse backgrounds of the Group’s
membership. As such, 5A broke into two Sub-Groups – one focused on Policy issues, while the
other focused on Technical issues. The two Sub-Groups then moved forward with independent
conference calls that focused almost exclusively on the portions of the Part 11 Rules most
applicable to their expertise.
Over the course of several months, each Sub-Group met via conference call on a weekly basis.
Each Sub-Group had a Lead who developed an agenda and framed conversation and discussion
amongst the participants. On some of the more divisive issues the Lead worked to bring
members closer to consensus and encouraged open dialogue designed to find common ground.
For each Sub-Group meeting extensive notes were captured and analyzed to determine if there
was overlap in the issues being discussed. In some instances it became clear that both Sub-
Groups needed further clarification on certain topics, in which case full Working Group
meetings were called and Subject Matter Experts were brought in to add clarity to some of the
issues. In other instances it appeared both Sub-Groups were covering the same topics during
their independent meetings. In those cases, again, full Working Group meetings were called in
order to work toward a consensus as a unified body and to avoid further duplication of effort.
3.3.2 Collaboration via Portal
In addition to the regular conference calls, an online collaboration portal featuring an array of
Social Media capabilities was designed and implemented for use by the 5A participants. The
portal was accessible to all Working Group members throughout the duration of their work on
behalf the CSRIC. The table below details some of the most prominent capabilities featured on
the Portal and how they were used by the members of the 5A Working Group.
Document Repository Collaboration space where members posted, reviewed, and edited
documents
Forum Open space where issues were discussed amongst members
Calendar Central location where all relevant meetings and events were
documented
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
Links Location where external internet links pertinent to CSRIC were
posted.
From its inception, the portal became a useful tool for the Working Group as they shared ideas,
resources, and collaborated on common documents, including this Final Report. Given the
disparate locations from which the 5A members originated, having an online collaboration tool
was instrumental to the successful completion of the Working Group’s final product.
4 Background
From the onset of 5A’s work, close attention was paid to the researching relevant topics,
including the EAS, the Integrated Public Alerts and Warning System (IPAWS), the CAP, and
the Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS) and other alerting methodologies. Several
members of the 5A Working Group brought specialized expertise in one or more of these areas
that helped establish a baseline understanding of these related topics and served as a catalyst for
promoting discussion and the development of the Working Group’s final recommendations.
4.1 Emergency Alert System (EAS)
EAS is the primary national warning system that provides the President with the means to
address the nation during a national crisis. State and local officials also use EAS to issue
warning messages about imminent or ongoing hazards in specific regions. Three Federal
agencies are responsible for EAS: the FCC, FEMA, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration’s (NOAA) National Weather Service (NWS). Functionally, EAS is a
hierarchical alert message distribution system. Initiating an EAS message, whether at the
national, state, or local level, requires the message initiator (e.g. FEMA, which initiates EAS
alerts at the national level on behalf of the President) to deliver specially-encoded messages to a
broadcast station-based transmission network that, in turn, delivers the messages to individual
broadcasters, cable operators, and other EAS Participants. EAS Participants maintain special
encoding and decoding equipment that can receive the message for retransmission to other EAS
Participants and to end users (broadcast listeners and cable and other service subscribers).
On May 31, 2007 the FCC adopted a Second Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (EB Docket 04-296, FCC-07-109A1) (Erratum, DA-07-4002A1) to strengthen the
EAS and to promote the development of fully digital next generation technologies and delivery
systems for EAS. The Second Report and Order requires EAS participants to accept messages
using CAP, the groundwork for next generation EAS delivery systems, no later than 180 days
after FEMA announces its adoption of standards in each case. CAP is intended to ensure the
efficient and rapid transmission of EAS alerts to the public in a variety of formats (e.g. text,
audio and video) and via different channels (e.g. broadcast, cable, satellite, and other networks).
4.1.1 State and Local CAP-based EAS Programs
Historically, the EAS has been one of several federally managed warning systems. FEMA
jointly administers EAS with the FCC, in cooperation with the NWS. The NOAA Weather
Radio system has been upgraded to an all-hazard warning capability.
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
However, while federally managed, the actual operation and maintenance of the majority of the
nation’s emergency alert capabilities (except for the PEP system) has been conducted by state,
local, municipal and territorial governments and broadcasters. Under the current EAS, a
national system was created whose component parts rapidly came to be used for state and local
purposes, and operated at a state and local level.
4.1.2 Emerging Advanced EAS Capabilities
There are a growing number of existing state/local advanced IP-based EAS networks across the
United States, many of which already utilize the CAP data format, as well as numerous local
jurisdictions with their own CAP EAS systems and pilots.
Via a survey conducted by the Texas Association of Broadcasters and other resources, IP based
systems are observed in the following 18 states (plus the District of Columbia), of which at least
10 are already originating and disseminating CAP messages for EAS, and the remainder appear
to have near-term plans to begin introducing CAP message origination and dissemination within
their state systems:
• California **
• District of Columbia **
• Delaware **
• Florida **
• Georgia
• Hawaii (pilot) **
• Idaho (pilot) **
• Illinois
• Michigan
• Maryland **
• Massachusetts
• Missouri **
• New York (pilot)
• North Carolina
• Pennsylvania **
• Rhode Island
• South Carolina
• Virginia
• Washington **
** denotes respondent indicating currently distributing CAP messages for EAS
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
Note: There are additional states such as Indiana currently evaluating the use of existing state
data relay networks for CAP EAS distribution.
State and local CAP-EAS distribution networks are infrastructures intended to efficiently deliver
alert and warning content to end users, in this case to EAS participants. Where advanced EAS
capabilities have not yet been deployed, emergency managers continue to utilize EAS in
traditional manners. Emergency managers, and state police agencies often in the case of
AMBER Alerts, can originate EAS alerts through their own EAS encoder equipment, via direct
request to a broadcaster or cable operator, or via the NWS. These legacy systems and
procedures will need to be upgraded or replaced to accommodate for the origination and delivery
of CAP based alerts.
4.1.3 State and Local EAS Plans
More than 14,000 broadcast stations and 10,000 cable systems across the nation are required to
follow their state EAS plans, as well as local EAS plans in many cases. Each state’s plans
specify the monitoring assignments for all broadcast stations and cable systems within that state.
These plans and monitoring assignments will need to be updated to accommodate CAP EAS
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
systems. Several states are known to be currently updating their State EAS Plans to reflect
current or planned CAP EAS origination and distribution capabilities. However, in most cases,
state and local areas have not yet filed updated EAS plans to reflect the usage of these next
generation CAP-based capabilities.
As specified in the FCC Part 11 regulations, EAS plans contain guidelines that must be followed
by broadcast and cable personnel, emergency officials and NWS personnel to activate the EAS.
This requirement would presumably continue with the adoption of CAP EAS systems. Revised
state and local CAP EAS plans will contain unique methods of EAS message IP distribution,
such as satellite, terrestrial wireless, Internet, and/or other means.
According to FCC regulations, EAS plans must be reviewed and approved by the Chief, Public
Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, FCC, prior to implementation to ensure they are
consistent with national plans, FCC regulations, and EAS operation. It is reasonable to assume
that updated State plans will continue to contain procedures for State emergency management
and other State officials, the NWS, and broadcast and cable personnel to transmit emergency
information to the public during a State emergency using the EAS.
Similarly, updated Local Area plans will contain procedures for local officials or the NWS to
transmit emergency information to the public during a local emergency using the new CAP EAS
capabilities. Local plans may be included in the State plan. A Local Area is a geographical area
of contiguous communities or counties that may include more than one state.
4.1.4 State and Local Emergency Communication Committees
State and Local Emergency Communication Committees (SECCs and/or LECCs) are constituted
by broadcasters, cable operators, emergency managers and others concerned with EAS. These
entities design a monitoring plan that determines what entities will serve as the EAS sources and
originators of messages (Emergency Operation Centers, 911 centers, NWR, etc.). These
monitoring plans will need to be evaluated and potentially reconsidered in light of CAP EAS
requirements. SECCs and LECCs also decide what communications assets are available, who is
authorized to issue warnings, how they will do so, which EAS codes will be issued in their
region, and how and when officials will participate in EAS tests.
The committee stakeholders will continue to have a critical role designing the most effective
CAP-based EAS communications network at the state and local level, determining legacy EAS
and CAP-based EAS monitoring assignments. They also decide who is authorized to issue
warnings, how they will do so, proper authentication procedures, and which EAS codes will be
considered essential within their region. Thus, the state and local plans will have a key role in
mapping out how state and local CAP EAS systems are “wired together.”
4.1.5 Training
FEMA is creating an online training program for emergency managers who have never before
been exposed to IPAWS. FEMA’s Emergency Management Institute is developing a web-based
independent study course that will be available on FEMA’s Emergency Management Institute’s
eLearning system and/or the FEMA Employee Knowledge Center. The course goals are to help
state, local, tribal, and territorial emergency managers draft better alerts and warning messages,
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
to improve skills in using emergency alerting equipment, and to increase the effectiveness and
participation of emergency managers using the EAS.
4.2 IPAWS
Developed by FEMA, IPAWS is the Nation’s next generation public alerting system. It is
designed to improve public safety through the rapid dissemination of emergency messages to as
many people as possible over as many communications devices as possible. IPAWS is building
additional redundancy EAS by establishing diverse dissemination paths including Internet
Protocol networks. It will provide a digital interface to EAS and CMAS participants (e.g.,
broadcasters, cable systems, and commercial cellular carriers providing broadcast cellular
alerts), NWS, as well as Internet Service Providers. In addition, the program is developing
standards that support interoperability with state and local warning systems.
4.2.1 System Overview and Vision
The IPAWS vision is an effective and comprehensive system that enables the proper authorities
to alert and warn the American people under all conditions through as many means as possible.
Incident response and public alerts begin at the local level. Thus, IPAWS also is developing the
protocols to enable existing local and State public alert and warning systems to be interoperable
with – and leverage – IPAWS architecture. As an example, assume a railroad tanker car is
leaking chlorine chemical in a particular geographic area. A state, local, tribal, or territorial
authenticated alerting authority can send a Shelter-in-Place Warning alert through their local
system and to the IPAWS interface at the same time. IPAWS would validate the message
format and route the alert message to the appropriate disseminators for distribution in the area
designated by the emergency manager. Residents in this area would then be warned by any
combination of these distribution channels.
In simple terms, IPAWS will accept standards-based alert and warning messages generated by
emergency managers using existing state, local, tribal, or territorial systems, or an IPAWS web
interface. These so called CAP formatted messages will then be forwarded to the FEMA
IPAWS aggregator. The aggregator will disseminate the message through all distribution means
the emergency manager is authorized to use. For example, the aggregator will have interfaces to
distribute messages to traditional broadcast media via the EAS, to cellular devices via the
Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS) to NOAA Weather Radio, to Internet services via
network interfaces, and to unique state and local systems that are IPAWS CAP compliant (such
as Emergency Telephone Networks, Radio Broadcast Data Systems, siren, and/or signage
systems).
IPAWS will:
• Enhance the resiliency of National-Level EAS through the Primary Entry Point (PEP)
expansion program; (PEP stations are the entry points for national presidential EAS
alerts that FEMA is responsible for distributing);
• Create an alert and warning message interoperability framework by establishing or
adopting standards, such as CAP, that allow a single warning message to be seamlessly
transmitted over different systems;
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
• Improve federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial alert and warning message access to
multiple broadcast and other communications pathways by enabling alert and warning
messages to reach the public through as many means as possible;
• Partner with NOAA to enable seamless integration of message transmission through the
National Weather Service networks;
• Enable alert and warning to those with disabilities and those without proficiency in the
English language; and
• Allow the President of the United States to speak to the American people under
emergency circumstances.
4.2.2 Current Schedule for 2012
FEMA is on schedule to achieve the IPAWS vision in fiscal year 2012.
1. Interoperable standards and interfaces will be in place;
2. Redundancy will be built into the dissemination network via PBS and public television
stations, as directed by the WARN Act; and
3. Integrated disparate message distribution paths will be complete, meaning that one
message can travel many paths to reach the American public;
Standards are needed so that federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial entities can share the same
common message and interface formats. Inside the IPAWS environment, an aggregator contains
a suite of standards and services for message dissemination across multiple systems and
platforms. If everyone uses the same standards, validated emergency managers will be able to
send their messages over any combination of partner dissemination paths that use those
standards. FEMA expects to complete interfaces to many of these dissemination paths in the
next two years.
4.2.3 Common Alerting Protocol (CAP)
CAP is an open standard that will benefit emergency managers at all levels by allowing a single
warning message to be disseminated simultaneously over many different systems. To increase
interoperability in the national warning system, FEMA modified the requirements for an alert
profile of the EAS-CAP Industry Group, an industry coalition of emergency alert equipment
manufacturers. In December 2008, FEMA submitted these requirements to the Organization for
the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS), an international standards
organization. FEMA asked OASIS to develop a product in consultation with its members that
reflected public comment. FEMA believed OASIS’s open process for development, public
vetting, and ultimately advancing an open standard is the best way to ensure a state of the art
product.
After meeting with the broadcast industry and receiving their feedback, FEMA pledged to
complete four milestones before adopting the CAP IPAWS profile:
1. Establish a testing program and publish lists of tested, CAP-compliant products
broadcasters can purchase;
2. Oversee development of an Implementation Guide for CAP to EAS Translation;
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
3. Demonstrate delivering a Federal message in the CAP IPAWS Profile format to a
National Primary Entry Point Station; and
4. Begin the OASIS process on IPAWS CAP Security Requirements.
Once these four milestones have been reached, FEMA will formally adopt the CAP profile. By
federal regulation, broadcasters then have 180 days to make whatever internal changes they
deem necessary to be able to receive an IPAWS CAP message.
4.2.4 Geo-Targeted Alert System (GTAS)
FEMA IPAWS is working with NOAA to develop software for state, local, tribal, and territorial
emergency managers that will allow real time collaboration with NOAA personnel and weather
data for generation of alerts and warnings to specific geo-targeted areas. Called the Geo-
Targeted Alert Systems (GTAS), this software models the forward progress of, for example, a
chemical cloud or toxic spill, so emergency managers can warn only those people in the
anticipated path of the plume. In August 2009, FEMA successfully piloted this software at the
City of Dallas Emergency Operations Center, and the NWS Weather Forecast Office in Ft.
Worth, Texas. NOAA/NWS and FEMA also conducted live training at the State of Washington
EOC and the City of Seattle EOC in 2010.
4.3 Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS)
The Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS) is required by the 2006 WARN Act2, under
2 Title VI of the SAFE Port Act, (PL_109-347) which was signed into law in October 2006, is entitled Commercial
Mobile Service Alerts. It is also referred to as the Warning Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act, a name
derived from the legislation (S.1753) from which it was derived (view prior activity). Among other provisions, the
WARN Act requires the FCC to adopt:
• System critical protocols and technical requirements for the CMAS;
• A mechanism under which commercial mobile service (CMS) providers may elect to participate in the
CMAS and disclose to their subscribers whether or not they will participate;
• Rules under which licensees and permittees of noncommercial educational (NCE) broadcast stations or
public broadcast stations install necessary equipment and technologies on, or as part of, any broadcast
television digital signal transmitter to enable the distribution of geographically targeted alerts by CMS
providers that have elected to participate in the CMAS; and
• Technical testing requirements for CMS providers that elect to transmit emergency alerts and for the
devices and equipment used by such providers for transmitting such alerts.
The WARN Act also sets out specific benchmarks and deadlines by which the FCC must complete the various
requirements mandated. The Commercial Mobile Service Alert Advisory Committee (CMSAAC), also mandated
by the WARN Act, was given responsibility to develop recommendations on technical standards and protocols to
support the ability of wireless service providers to transmit emergency alerts to their subscribers. The final meeting
of this advisory committee was held on October 3, 2007.
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
which Commercial Mobile Service (CMS) providers may elect voluntarily to participate. Please
note that CMS is a term defined in the WARN Act which is equivalent to Commercial Mobile
Radio Services (CMRS), a term used by the FCC to refer to mobile wireless services.
The FCC rules establishing the CMAS require an end-to-end architecture, in which a Federal
Alert Aggregator/Gateway would receive, authenticate, and format alerts received by Federal,
state, tribal, and local government agencies and then transmit them over a secure interface to
gateways administered by participating CMS providers. The CMS providers would, in turn,
process the alerts and transmit them to their subscribers’ mobile devices.
CMAS is a component of IPAWS systems that will provide the capability to reach cellular
phone subscribers with public alert and warning messages and falls under FCC Part 10 rules.
FEMA will be the alert aggregator, receiving CAP messages from authorized users and passing
alert messages in CMAS format to the cellular phone industry. Adding mobile alerts to the
range of distribution channels will eventually cover 270 million subscribers, or 87 percent of the
population, as CMAS handsets are introduced into the marketplace. CMAS will facilitate the
dissemination of three types of alerts through cell phones: Presidential Alerts; Imminent Threat
Alerts; and America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response (AMBER) Alerts.
FEMA and DHS’ Science & Technology Directorate are working with two industry
organizations, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions and the
Telecommunications Industry Association, and have completed interface specifications between
the FEMA CMAS gateway and commercial mobile service provider gateways. This interface
will allow federal systems carrying an alert to seamlessly hand off that alert to the private sector
commercial mobile carriers in CMAS format for further distribution.
Final balloting by industry association members on the interface specifications was complete in
2009. FEMA formally adopted the resulting CMAS interface specification. By federal
regulation under Part 10 rules, cellular service providers have 28 months to make whatever
internal changes are necessary to receive an alert and begin to transmit it to their customer base
according to their election to participate in CMAS; this 28 month interval ends April, 2012.
FEMA and DHS’ Science & Technology Directorate also are in the process of completing work
on the infrastructure that will allow us to send CMAS alerts to the cellular providers.
For the purposes of this report, CAP is used between alert originators and the FEMA alert
aggregator/gateway and this report on CAP introduction may apply to that interface. The
interface from the FEMA alert aggregator/gateway is a CMAS-specific protocol format.
5 Analysis, Findings, and Recommendations
As the CSRIC 5A Working Group proceeded with its review of the Part 11 Rules governing
EAS, several different themes and concepts emerged and began to take shape. During the
Analysis phase, the Working Group members discovered most of their Findings fell into four
major subject areas, including Revisions to the FCC’s Part 11 Rules, Citizens with Disabilities,
Citizens not Proficient in English, and Defining the CAP Standard. The following section
explains the Working Group’s Analysis of the four major areas, reveals their Findings, and
provides comprehensive Recommendations regarding further exploration or revisions to the Part
11 Rules.
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
5.1 Revisions to Part 11 Rules
After extensive research and analysis of the FCC’s Part 11 Rules, Working Group 5A proposes
the following recommended changes.
Subsection Recommended Change Explanation/Remarks
§11.1 Update paragraph to include new CAP Additional originators are tribal, territorial, and
related alert originators. Gov’t Must Carry.
§11.2(a) Update PEP definition to be consistent
with FEMA implementation and future
plans.
§11.11 Update paragraph to include reference The EAS system is reliant on the IPAWS for
for interface requirements to IPAWS EAN originator messages.
source.
§11.11 Consider adoption of ECIG Look at what FEMA has adopted and consider
Implementation Guidelines. whether to adopt the FEMA document or the
guideline in the original form.
§11.11(a) Addition the requirement for receiving Current 11.11(a) only has a requirement for
and decoding CAP originated messages, existing (legacy) EAS equipment, and thus
also necessitates adding CAP reception needs to be updated in light of 11.56.
in the definition of minimum
requirements for EAS Participants. EAS
Participants will require the ability to
monitor and receive both CAP and
legacy EAS protocol messages, and
further transmit EAS protocol messages
in formats congruent with other Part 11
subsections.
§11.11(a) “EAS Equipment Requirement” tables Current 11.11(a) only has a requirement for
need to be revised to reflect the range of existing (legacy) EAS equipment, and thus
new CAP EAS equipment necessary for needs to be updated in light of 11.56.
the monitoring, reception, decoding, and
video/audio display of alerts.
§11.13 Is there a need to update EAN relative Note for CAP compliance writers
to CAP compliant capability?
§11.14 Modify PEP paragraph to include
reference requiring IPAWS
interconnectivity.
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
§11.20 “State Relay Networks” should be With the amended monitoring requirements in
updated to accommodate the relay of §11.52, Part 11 rules need to be amended to
CAP originated messages to EAS reflect CAP EAS monitoring within state relay
participants via the addition of state networks.
CAP relay networks.
Add information technology to paragraph.
§11.21(a) Include language on EAN distribution IPAWS distribution now augments PEP
via IPAWS. distribution of EAN.
§11.21(a) “State and Local Area plans and FCC As above
Mapbook” should be updated to include
CAP.
§11.21(b) “State and Local Area plans and FCC As above
Mapbook” should be updated to include
CAP.
§11.31 Clarify how Governor Must Carry E.g., create GOV originator code
messages are to be implemented in EAS
Protocol.
§11.32(a) Modify EAS encoder minimum EAS encoder must be capable of rendering a
requirement. fully CAP compliant message.
§11.32(2) Modify Inputs Include requirement for a single Ethernet input
with support for multiple IP sources.
§11.33(a)(1) Add CAP input interface requirements. Device specifications need to be updated for
CAP monitoring, in accordance with 11.52.
§11.33(a)(1) Add Ethernet input and multiple IP
source requirements.
§11.33(10) Message validity expanded to include Per the ECIG Implementation Guide
handle duplicate messages and use CAP
message by default.
§11.34 Add FCC certification for CAP EAS IPAWS NIMS conformance testing only
devices. provides verification of a project-specific CAP
data format, and is therefore necessary for the
IPAWS project, but not sufficient for the overall
CAP-EAS endeavor. The proper CAP-to-EAS
translation function is not included in the
IPAWS NIMS conformance tests. Therefore, it
is necessary that the FCC continue and extend
its statutory role in EAS certification to CAP
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
EAS devices.
§11.35(a) “Equipment operational readiness” – §11.56 requires EAS Participants to receive
Need to update to include the CAP CAP messages.
receiving requirement.
§11.44(b) Modify EAS Participants priority. Add reference to additional messages from
Tribal, Territorial and Gov’t Must Carry
§11.45 Modify Prohibition to reference CAP CAP messages of status “Actual” as stated in
“Actual” status indicators. ECIG
§11.51(1) Equipment must be capable of rendering As opposed to simply generating an EAS code
and (5,i,1) a CAP compliant message to EAS.
§11.51(m) Add Gubernatorial Must-Carry CAP
status.
§11.51(4) Insert “Wireline Video Systems” Carrier is currently excluded from both
and (5) paragraphs.
§11.52(a) “EAS code and Attention Signal §11.56 requires EAS Participants to receive
Monitoring requirements” – Require CAP messages.
CAP receiving equipment
§11.52 A new subparagraph is needed to Monitoring multiple CAP sources is necessary
require EAS participants to monitor to ensure redundance and support the
multiple IP-based CAP alert sources mandatory Gubernatorial Must-Carry message
(i.e. CAP servers); in addition to legacy in §11.55(a).
(audio) EAS alert sources. EAS
participants should monitor at least one
state and/or local CAP EAS source (i.e.
CAP server) in addition to a Federal
CAP source.
§11.54(1) Monitor IPAWS In addition to the statement of two EAS sources
for national alert (EAN).
§11.54 Consider adding (14) EAS Messages will be broadcast only if the
scope of CAP alert is “Public”
§11.55(a) The mandatory Gubernatorial Must- This provision raises a number of questions,
Carry message requires additional including whether a separate EAS event code
definition. may be needed for this function.
§11.56 Consider extending the 180 day clock to The trigger point starting the clock, as well as
the length of the clock, need to factor in the
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
be no less than one year. following criteria in relation to CAP-based
national alerts (EAN):
1. FEMA adoption of CAP.
2. FEMA initiates IPAWS network for EAN
dissemination
3. IPAWS conformance testing of
devices/systems to be potentially connected to
the IPAWS network
4. FCC type certification of any CAP EAS
devices mandated for EAS participants.
Other factors the commission must consider are
how long it will take EAS participants to
implement the following:
a. Obtaining IP connectivity to receive the CAP
EAN
b. Equipment procurement, installation, and
testing
General Recommend commission develop a Current method of changing and adding event
Comments more streamlined method for changing codes is regulatory based and recommend that
codes to more swiftly enable EAS commission consider modification of the
participants' use of new codes requested procedure to an administrative process.
by authorities.
Reference <eventCode> element specification
(4) at line 160 in CAP v1.2 USA IPAWS
Profile v1.0.
5.2 Citizens with Disabilities
CAP provides an XML-based data format for exchanging information concerning public
warnings and emergencies. CAP provides flexibility for including various text and multimedia
based resources which may have applicability to citizens with disabilities.
The National Center for Accessible Media at WGBH3 Access Alerts project identified gaps that
exist between alert systems which deliver information, the unrealized potential of these systems
to serve the entire population, and recommended system protocols, technologies and services
that can bridge this gap. As part of this gap analysis, the Access Alerts project used consumer
and social science research about effective messaging and warning variables for people with
sensory disabilities, as well as a national emergency management survey report on existing and
planned practices for accessible emergency notification.
The Access Alerts project concluded with a number of recommendations, some of which have
applicability to this analysis:
3 See http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/analog/alerts/
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
• Establish relationships with local government’s emergency management offices and first
responders, and let them know the communications preferences for being notified in an
emergency. These relationships help identify the type of information that may be
included in the CAP message to support those citizens with disabilities;
• Participate in emergency management drills and planning;
• Participate in voluntary registries for consumer notification, and be sure to understand
the registry program’s full scope and limitations for what they do – and do not – provide
consumers;
• Learn about emergency warning capabilities currently available from existing services
provided by NWS systems (e.g. NOAA Weather Radio, NOAA Weather Wire Service
(NWWS), and resources on the NWS Web site)4, and consider the use of Public Alert ™
devices5 that provide emergency alerting capabilities to people with disabilities;
• Utilize access to the NWS infrastructure currently offered through the HazCollect
program6 to implement more timely and increased local emergency access to currently
available NWS emergency warning capabilities;
• Conform to the CAP OASIS standard to ensure interoperability with other systems and
equipment;
• Research, acquire, and implement accessible communications resources that are
specifically designed to facilitate communication in an emergency between people with
sensory disabilities and first responders (e.g., sign language charts, Braille materials,
speech-to-text and text-to-speech applications, etc.);
• Produce and maintain a library of fully accessible (text, audio, video) multimedia
emergency messages that can be delivered via mobile devices, the Web and broadcast
media, shown in shelters, etc. To maximize efficacy, explore cooperative public/private
ventures with state agencies and consumer disabilities advocacy organizations that may
be working on similar products and services;
• Minimize unnecessary header information in alert messages; and
• Offer consumers as many granular options for subscription opt-in as possible, to combat
user fatigue/“cry-wolf” syndrome.
One additional conclusion from this project is the definition of “emergency”. The Access Alerts
project defined “emergency” as being an "imminent threat to human life or health" and includes
AMBER and other missing-person-at-risk alerts7. The definition of “emergency” under EAS is
broader.
The National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) published an
Emergency Management Research and People with Disabilities Resource Guide8 which
4 National Weather Service: http://www.nws.noaa.gov/
5 NOAA Weather Radio consumer information: http://www.nws.noaa.gov/nwr/nwrrcvr.htm
6 National Weather Service HazCollect program: http://www.nws.noaa.gov/os/hazcollect/
7 This definition is consistent with the FCC’s Commercial Mobile Service Alert Advisory Committee (CMSAAC)
definition of “emergency”.
8 See http://www.naric.com/nidrr/guide-emergency-management-pwd.pdf
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
provides a listing and description of research projects funded by the federal government and
non-federal entities, research recommendations that have come out of conferences on emergency
management and disability, and a bibliography of relevant research publications. This is a
useful source of information for analysis of this issue.
The Telecommunications for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, Inc. (TDI) filed comments to the
FCC’s EB Docket No. 04-296, Review of the Emergency Alert System9. The comments
specifically point out that “(W)hile the Consumer Groups agree that the utilization of the CAP
will facilitate the transmission of emergency data, they urge the FCC to not rely solely on that
new process”.
Specifically, TDI recommended that both audio and video formats are equally important and
should contain identical information so that individuals who are deaf, hard of hearing, blind or
have visual impairment can receive the same information that is available to people with full
visual and hearing capabilities, and it is essential that both formats (audio and video) be required
at all times.
Further, TDI recommend that to ensure those with hearing loss have immediate access to
accurate and complete information being broadcast in video format in all emergency situations,
all parties that are subject to the EAS rules should be required to provide open captions of the
audio message in real-time, which would be available for viewing by everyone, and should be
required for the display of emergency messages because they can be accessed on a wide variety
of devices. These recommendations extend to devices where the screen is less than thirteen
inches. They also expressed concern about individuals being able to access the captioning on
unfamiliar devices and recommended consumer education.
Based on these analyses, the working group determined the following recommendations:
1. As more people transition from traditional wire line phone systems and TTY usage to
Internet-based technologies as their primary means of communication, it is important
that these platforms continue to facilitate the delivery of emergency messages to citizens
with disabilities. This could be achieved through the development of a national relay
center, which disabled individuals could contact to learn more about a local event after
receiving an initial alert through traditional channels. Such a center should be a source
of information for the deaf and hard of hearing, the blind and visually impaired,
caregivers in group homes, and people with physical disabilities; and
2. Deployment of the CMAS at the local, state, tribal and Federal level using a CAP
interface to the Federal Alert Aggregator in the CMAS architecture.
5.3 Citizens not Proficient in English
The multilingual population in the United States is growing in size. According to U.S. Census
data, among the 262.4 million people aged 5 and over, 47 million (18%) speak a language other
9 In the Matters of Review of Emergency Alert System; Independent Spanish Broadcasters Association, the Office of
Communication of the United Church of Christ, Inc. and the Minority Media and Telecommunications Council,
Petition for Immediate Relief, Second Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, EB Docket
No. 04-296 (rel. July 12, 2007) (“FNPRM”).
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
than English at home.10 In addition, the U.S. Census documented over 300 different single
languages and language categories that are spoken in the United States.11 The Hispanic
population in the United States more than doubled between 1980 and 2000.12 In 2008,
Hispanics became the largest minority group in the United States, comprising 15.1% of the
population.13 Spanish continues to be the non-English language most frequently spoken in U.S.
homes, with Chinese being second most frequently spoken language.14 However, an
examination of the census data at the state level reveals that the languages and population
speaking those languages can vary considerably by locality.15
CAP is capable of carrying multiple languages. It allows for the use of multiple information
blocks to specify different languages. Including too many languages, however, in an alert
message could be problematic because there is a practical limitation to the length of the CAP
message. In addition, there is nothing inherent in CAP itself that provides for translation
automatically from English to other languages. Moreover, while there is software (or machine-
based) language translation technology available, the state of the art is such that the meaning or
intent of emergency alert messages may be mis-translated or confused.
Some jurisdictions, such as the State of Florida, have addressed the needs of their multilingual
communities by originating emergency messages in English and Spanish (as well as Creole)
from their state emergency operations center.
After considering this information, the Working Group finds that there are considerable
challenges to adequately addressing the multilingual emergency messaging needs of the
changing population. Key among those challenges is the large number of different languages
that might need to be accommodated, geographical variances in which languages are spoken as
well as the lack of available technology to support effective automated multi-language
translation. The Working Group concluded that, at this time, the choice of what language(s) to
use in a multilingual EAS message is best determined by the entities in a specific community
because only those in that local community know which languages are spoken there.
The Working group has developed the following recommendations.
• Message translation – At this time, the responsibility for message translation should lie
with originators of the message. As language translation technology improves, going
forward the Commission should:
o Research methodologies employed by bilingual and multilingual countries (e.g.
Canada, Israel);
10 See Language Use and English-Speaking Ability: 2000, Issued October 2003 at 1, available at
http://www.census.gov/prod/2003pubs/c2kbr-29.pdf, (last visited August 24, 2010).
11 Id. at 2.
12 See Frank Hobbs and Nicole Stoops, U.S. Census Bureau, “Demographic Trends in the 20th Century” (2002) at 1,
78, available at http://www.census.gov/prod/2002pubs/censr-4.pdf (last visited May 12, 2010).
13 See American Factfinder, U.S. Census Bureau, ACS Demographic and Housing Estimates: 2006-2008, available
at http://factfinder.census.gov/servlet/ADPTable?_bm=y&-qr_name=ACS_2008_3YR_G00_DP3YR5&-
geo_id=01000US&-gc_url=null&-
ds_name=ACS_2008_3YR_G00_&-_lang=en (last visited August 13, 2010).
14 Id., note 1 at 3.
15 See Table 5. Detailed List of Languages Spoken at Home for the Population 5 Years and Over by State: 2000,
available at http://www.census.gov/population/cen2000/phc-t20/tab05.pdf (last visited August 24, 2010).
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
o Research and determine the accuracy and reliability of machine or software based
translation technology. Software language translation may not be sufficiently
reliable to be used for emergency messaging;
o While CAP does support the capability for multiple languages, in many of the
alert dissemination methods in use today, the CAP itself is not delivered to an end
user device. Research is needed to identify how multi-language information
would be delivered to the end user; and
o Collaborate with industry to develop translation applications with a goal of
allowing an end user to select a language translation of choice.
• Use Census data and social science research to identify threshold for recommending non-
English language translation services;
• Use Census data to identify geographic areas with high density of non-English speaking
population that require translation services; and
• Consistency in messaging – develop and employ a multi-language look-up table for
SAME/EAS Event Codes (similar to that developed by NWS and Environment Canada
16) that would enable automated translation into additional languages directly from the
EAS Header Code string contained in an alert message.
5.4 Defining the CAP Standard
Adherence to the CAP standard alone does not guarantee that connected systems and equipment
will be conformant with Part 11 Rules for EAS activation and display. This would likely present
compatibility and interoperability issues for IPAWS, as well as individual State, local and
territorial CAP EAS systems. Below is a general discussion of underlying issues and responses
from government and industry.
CAP is a general data format for emergency messaging (all-hazard alerts and warnings). The
intent of CAP was to allow a consistent warning message to be disseminated simultaneously
over many different warning systems, thus increasing warning effectiveness while simplifying
the warning task. As such, CAP serves as a basic container for alert data. However practitioners
have increasingly found that additional specificity has been required for the appropriate usage of
CAP in various systems, including the EAS.
For this reason, FEMA has issued an IPAWS CAP profile, describing how to use CAP to create
EAS messages, specifically for the FEMA IPAWS system. Industry, via the EAS CAP Industry
Group, offers even greater specificity, on how CAP formatted data can be used to construct a
Part 11-compliant EAS message, with associated audio and text data. In this manner, guidance
is available from the general (the overall CAP format) to the increasingly specific.
5.4.1 IPAWS CAP Profile
16 See NWS Instruction 10-1712, February 12, 2007 at Appendix A, Section A.4, available at
http://www.weather.gov/directives/sym/pd01017012curr.pdf, (last visited August 31, 2010) See also, e.g Codes
événement des MSSC (Showing French look-up table for SAME codes) avalable at http://www.ec.gc.ca/meteo-
weather/default.asp?lang=Fr&n=1C86C296-1(last visited August 31, 2010).
22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
The IPAWS CAP Profile is an interpretation of the OASIS CAP v1.2 specification as needed for
the purposes of FEMA’s IPAWS "system of systems". FEMA is working with the Organization
for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) to develop a profile to
constrain the CAP Standard for receipt and translation with and among IPAWS system exchange
partners. On October 13, 2009, the CAP IPAWS Profile (CAP v1.2 IPAWS Profile v1.0) was
approved as an OASIS Committee Specification.
The IPAWS CAP Profile was developed primarily by integrating requirements related to three
federal warning-delivery systems:
• The broadcast EAS as recommended by the ECIG;
• The NOAA Non-Weather Emergency Message (NWEM) "HazCollect" program for
weather radio and other delivery systems as derived from technical documentation; and,
• CMAS for cellular telephones as described in the recommendations of the Commercial
Mobile Service Alert Advisory Committee (CMSAAC).
FEMA's partners in developing the IPAWS CAP Profile included NOAA, FCC, and DHS
Science & Technology Directorate.
5.4.2 EAS-CAP Implementation Guide
An EAS-CAP Implementation Guide provides specific details on how a receiving device should
interpret CAP formatted data to construct a 47 CFR Part 11 EAS message, and associated audio
and text data. In May 2010, the EAS-CAP Industry Group published an Implementation Guide
intended to further reduce the areas of uncertainty in how an alert will be presented to the public
via CAP/EAS, so that originators and distributors of alerts can deliver the intended message to
the public, regardless of the vendors or platforms involved.
The ECIG is a broad coalition of equipment, software and service providers to EAS. ECIG
formed in 2008 to present a consolidated voice on key technical, standards and operational
issues, from industry’s point of view. Current membership represents the vast majority of the
EAS industry – hardware, software and systems. All ECIG members have products that utilize
CAP v1.1, and several are already supporting both the CAP v1.2 specification and the ECIG
Implementation Guide v1.0.
Public warnings intended for transmission over the EAS can be encoded in CAP messages in
various ways. As both CAP v1.2 and the CAPv1.2 IPAWS Profile v1.0 make use of several free
form text elements and several optional elements, there is ample opportunity for a CAP message
rendered by one CAP-to-EAS device to differ when rendered by another vendor’s device. There
can also be a difference between what the originator intended for an alert, and what alerts
contain, when broadcast by CAP/EAS devices.
This EAS-CAP Implementation Guide was been prepared in light of several points of reference,
including the FEMA CAP v1.2 IPAWS Profile v1.0 Requirements, the updated CAP 1.2
specification, and other references. The guide was prepared to facilitate the success of any
CAP-to-EAS system including existing and planned state, local, territorial and tribal systems,
the proposed IPAWS system, and emerging NWS systems. To that end, in addition to
23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 5A
Final Report September 2010
addressing general CAP-to-EAS implementation issues for any advanced EAS system, the
Implementation Guide also directly addresses constraints and requirements of the IPAWS
program.
The ECIG EAS-CAP Implementation Guide provides specific details on how to send data in a
broadcast environment using existing FCC rules, visual and aural standards. The
Implementation Guide provides audio standards, text length standards. It also provides hints for
originators and software used by originators to allow for the realities of the broadcast
environment and existing FCC rules.
6 Conclusion
The CSRIC 5A Working Group spent more than six months researching, analyzing, and
evaluating a vast array of ideas, concepts, and themes around the FCC’s Part 11 Rules. During
this time members participated in dozens of conference calls, consistently accessed and utilized
resources posted to their online collaboration portal, and dedicated countless hours editing and
revising this Final Report.
Resolving many of the issues covered in the Part 11 Rules proved to be challenging for the
diverse membership that made up the 5A Working Group. Certainly a thorough evaluation of
the Part 11 Rules was a daunting task, but one that most members found educational and
rewarding.
In conclusion, members feel confident that through their diligence and willingness to
compromise, this Final Report is a fair and accurate representation of their collective view-
points and perspectives. The CSRIC 5A Working Group thanks the FCC for the opportunity to
provide feedback and recommendations for proposed changes to the Part 11 Rules and hopes the
findings of this Final Report and have a positive influence on future FCC proceedings.
24
