PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/CSRIC-1A-Report.pdf:
WORKING GROUP 1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation
Final Report
October 2010The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Acknowledgements
Working Group #1A gratefully acknowledges the assistance of the following organizations in
preparing this report.
– Arlington, Virginia
– Association of Public Safety Communications Officials (APCO)
– Dakota County, Minnesota
– Denco - area (Dallas, TX)
– DHS Office of Emergency Communications
– Hamilton County, Ohio
– Intrado
– L.R. Kimball
– Metropolitan Emergency Services Board
– Motorola
– National Emergency Number Association (NENA)
– Pacific County, Washington
– State of Michigan
– State of Minnesota
– State of Vermont
– State of Washington
– City of Walla Walla, Washington
Page 2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief....................................................................................................................4
1.1 Executive Summary.......................................................................................................4
1.2 Charter Directive............................................................................................................5
1.3 CSRIC Structure............................................................................................................5
1.4 Working Group 1A Team Members..............................................................................6
2 Objective, Scope, Methodology and Approach................................................................7
2.1 Objective........................................................................................................................7
2.2 Scope..............................................................................................................................7
2.3 Methodology..................................................................................................................8
2.4 Organization...................................................................................................................8
2.5 Approach........................................................................................................................9
3 Background.........................................................................................................................9
3.1 Technical Architecture.................................................................................................10
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations.....................................................................12
4.1 Analysis........................................................................................................................12
4.2 Abbreviated Interview Questionnaire..........................................................................13
4.3 Agency Case Study Participants..................................................................................14
4.4 Findings........................................................................................................................22
4.5 Effective Practices.......................................................................................................25
4.6 Recommendations........................................................................................................39
5 Summary............................................................................................................................41
6 Appendices & References.................................................................................................42
6.1 Appendix 1 - Interview Questionnaire.........................................................................43
6.2 Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings............................45
6.2.1 Summary of Survey Results.........................................................................................71
6.3 Appendix 3 - Consolidated Communications Center Survey Results.........................84
6.4 Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide........................................85
6.5 Appendix 5 - APCO Standards....................................................................................93
6.6 Appendix 6 - References..............................................................................................95
Page 3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
Public safety radio systems and communications dispatch centers were historically built and
operated by single agencies for their own users. Systems were designed to meet unique local
requirements, but often led to incompatibility, inefficient use of scarce resources, and higher
costs for specialized equipment and procedures with little opportunity to benefit from economies
of scale. There has been a clear trend over the last two decades towards public safety system
consolidation, with radio networks developed to cover counties, regions, and even states.
Similarly, jurisdictions have merged their communications dispatch centers across agencies and
political boundaries.
In the vast majority of cases, there are clear benefits to consolidation. The sharing of resources
allows for the elimination of duplicate costs, supports coordinated responses, provides greater
interoperability, and ultimately leads to more effective and efficient service. Driving forces from
political, economic and service quality factors are increasingly demanding public safety officials
consider consolidation with neighboring communities of interest. The consolidation process
often poses numerous challenges from operational, governance, funding and technical
perspectives.
Consolidation is a complex, multi-dimensional issue and an effective governance structure
allows the entities to successfully navigate the technological, strategic, tactical, and cultural
change brought about by consolidation. Establishing a common governing structure will
improve the policies, processes, and procedures of any major project by enhancing
communication, coordination, and cooperation. Since consolidation efforts are often met with
many unforeseen challenges, it is important that the political ‘will’ exist and that one or more
effective champion(s) leads the project. Securing “agency buy-in” is a significant challenge but
a necessary component for a successful consolidation. Agencies need to be convinced that loss
of control is offset by the benefits realized in joining a consolidated system. Personnel issues
can be some of the most problematic in any consolidation and require a great deal of thought at
the policy level early on in the project. Well defined communication channels among
stakeholders are critical to success. Open communications and frequent discussions to identify
and address issues of concern will help to alleviate any perceived threats and problems.
During consolidations, the successful implementation of technology is highly dependent on
effective operational procedures and consistent training of practitioners, but first and foremost is
the establishment of a trusted and secure governance structure. Gaining access to technology
individual agencies could not afford on their own and better trained personnel are significant
benefits. The technical infrastructure supporting public safety communications and dispatch
operations has become increasingly complex over the last decade, translating into both higher
maintenance costs as well as increased training requirements. At the same time, the traditional
revenue streams to fund capabilities are not keeping pace with the costs to refresh and maintain
Page 4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
technology. Absent new and consistent funding solutions, local government leaders will be truly
challenged in acquiring new and more advanced technology to keep pace with citizen demand
and expectations. Recent trends towards regional, multi-jurisdictional and multi-disciplinary
solutions with standards based shared systems have demonstrated that they can lead to technical,
operational, and financial advantages for the participants. The creation of new legislation or
changes to existing legislation may be necessary to codify relationships between the parties or to
create a sustainable funding mechanism.
Successful consolidation efforts allow the entities to establish policies and procedure and set
priorities that are fair and equitable for all stakeholders. The consolidations process further
allows for a broad analysis of issues and opportunities to ensure that performance meets
expectations resulting in measurable improvements for all the stakeholders participating in the
effort.
1.2 Charter Directive
While public safety radio systems and communications dispatch centers were historically built
and operated by single agencies, there has been a clear trend towards public safety system
consolidation, the result has been more efficient and effective operations. The consolidation
process is fraught with numerous challenges, from operational, governance, funding and
technical perspectives. A key issue is how to assist agencies in the transition from system
operator to system user. The initial focus of the work group will be on a transition to
consolidated systems that continue to be operated and controlled by public safety entities, but on
a larger scale. This Working Group will attempt to define these challenges and propose
recommended effective practices for overcoming them for CSRIC’s consideration. A future
work group may consider the findings of this group in addressing longer term transitions to
networks that are owned or operated, at least in part, by non-public safety entities.
1.3 CSRIC Structure
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) created the Communications Security,
Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) to provide recommendations to the FCC to
ensure optimal security, reliability and interoperability of communications systems, including
telecommunications, media and public safety communications. The scope of the Council’s
recommendations includes facilitating the operability and interoperability of wireline, wireless,
satellite, cable and public data networks as well as the operability and interoperability of public
safety communications systems. The Council’s recommendations will also facilitate the
security, robustness and reliability of broadcast and Multichannel Video Programming
Distribution facilities. The Council’s recommendations will also address: (1) ensuring the
security, sustainability and resiliency of telecommunications and media infrastructure and public
safety communications, throughout the United States; (2) ensuring the availability of
communications capacity during natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events that result in
exceptional strain on the communications infrastructure; and (3) ensuring and facilitating the
rapid restoration of communications services in the event of widespread or major disruptions.
Page 5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Figure 1 – CSRIC Structure
1.4 Working Group 1A Team Members
The working group consisted of members knowledgeable in Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAPs), the 9-1-1 and public safety communication systems. Working Group 1A consists of
the members listed below.
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
Name Organization
Martha Carter Chair Caddo Parish 9-1-1 District, Shreveport, Louisiana
Mike Alagna Co-Chair Motorola
Robert "Gil" Bailey Jr. Harrison County, MS ECC
James Dennis Baucom Technology Lead National Assoc. of Telecom Officers and Advisors
Kevin Bostrom Operations Lead NORCOM 9-1-1 Bellevue, WA
Charles Brennan PA Public Safety Radio Services
Don Brittingham Verizon
John J. Brown Jr. International Association of Fire Chiefs
Bill Brownlow NPSTC
John Ellison NENA
Steve Figved Will County, IL 9-1-1 Emergency Telecom System
Bob Finney III Collier County, FL Sheriff's Office
Barry T Furey Raleigh-Wake 9-1-1 Center
Arun Handa Telcordia Technologies
William Hinkle Intrado
Jeff Hubbard Technology Lead Qwest
Rick Jones NENA
Veronica Lancaster ATIS Manager of Standards Development
Tanya Lin Sprint Nextel
Page 6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Jim Lipinski Governance Lead State of Vermont/E9-1-1 Board
John Merklinger City of Rochester/County of Monroe Emergency Dept
Terry Miller Washington State DOT
Susan Moore USDA
Glen Nash CA 9-1-1 Emergency Communications Office
Nancy Pollock Governance Lead APCO
Janice Quintana DC OUC
Stephen Rauter Western Will County, IL Communications
Scot Smith Sprint Nextel
Mike VanDermyden OCIO-AI
Trinh Vu ATIS
Thomas Wahl Operations Lead Liberty County, GA Public Safety Communications
Stephen Washburn HHS
Steve Wisely APCO
2 Objective, Scope, Methodology and Approach
2.1 Objective
Consolidation means many things to many people, so what is consolidation? Consolidation
efforts typically result in one organization, in one facility, utilizing common systems and serving
multiple response agencies and/or jurisdictions.1 The objective of Working Group 1A was to
identify challenges to public safety consolidation efforts and develop recommended best
practices for overcoming them.
2.2 Scope
Broadly defined, the public safety community performs emergency first-response missions to
protect life, health, property, natural resources and to serve the public welfare. Emergency
responders—police officers, fire personnel, emergency medical technicians, transportation and
utility workers and others need to share vital voice and data information across disciplines and
jurisdictions to successfully respond to day-to-day incidents and large-scale emergencies. Public
safety operations require effective command, control, coordination, communication, and sharing
of information via dispatch centers or Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) responsible for
answering emergency calls for police, firefighting, and ambulance services.
1 Consolidation is possible even if the agencies exist in multiple facilities, for example, agencies can use the same
technology and share the costs across agencies even though they may be physically separate.
Page 7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
2.3 Methodology
Working group participants identified agencies representing the various categories of
consolidation and then developed a set of interview questions (Interview Questionnaire -
Appendix 1) to compare and contrast efforts. These projects were representative of the
spectrum of consolidation types, ranging from 9-1-1 network or infrastructure only, to full
consolidation of 9-1-1 and dispatch, communications systems and related technology. The goal
was to have as many different examples of consolidation types as reasonably possible given the
timeframe allotted for the study.
2.4 Organization
To develop the contents of this report, Working Group 1A divided the problem of public safety
consolidation into three separate areas of study—Technology, Governance and Operational
concerns (Figure 2 – Work Breakdown Structure). Leadership was solicited for each topic and
working group members affiliated with the subgroup that matched their area of expertise or
interest.
PPuubblliicc SSaaffeettyy
CCoonnssoolliiddaattiioonn
BBeesstt PPrraaccttiicceess
aanndd
RReeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss
SSttaannddaarrdd OOppeerraattiinngg
GGoovveerrnnaannccee TTeecchhnnoollooggyy PPrroocceedduurreess,, TTrraaiinniinngg,,
EExxeerrcciisseess aanndd UUssaaggee
••LLeeaaddeerrsshhiipp
••PPoolliicciieess,, PPrraaccttiicceess aanndd PPrroocceedduurree
••DDeecciissiioonn--mmaakkiinngg ggrroouuppss ••SSyysstteemm ffuunnccttiioonnaalliittyy
••TTrraaiinniinngg
••AAggrreeeemmeennttss ••SSyysstteemm ppeerrffoorrmmaannccee
••EExxeerrcciisseess
••FFuunnddiinngg ••IInntteerrooppeerraabbiilliittyy
••FFrreeqquueennccyy ooff uussee aanndd ffaammiilliiaarriittyy
••SSttrraatteeggiicc PPllaannnniinngg ••CCoonnttiinnuuiittyy ooff ccoommmmuunniiccaattiioonnss
Figure 2 - Work Breakdown Structure
Page 8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
2.5 Approach
The interview questionnaire was distributed to a key representative of each of the selected
consolidation projects. A working group member worked with those responsible for the
consolidation to answer the template questions. After collecting data on each of the
consolidation projects, the subgroup went through the documentation and extracted the important
points. Each data point was categorized by the identified key drivers⎯political, economic, or
service related. The resulting Interview Questionnaire Summary Data is included in Appendix 2.
In addition, working group members conducted a review of recent reports, standards, previous
recommendations and best practices developed by public safety practitioners, industry, and past
advisory committees.2
3 Background
Public safety operations require effective command, control, coordination, communication, and
sharing of information between the numerous criminal justice and public safety agencies and the
public. Thousands of incidents requiring mutual aid and coordinated response occur every day.
High-profile incidents test the ability of public safety service organizations to collaborate on
many levels in order to mount well-coordinated responses.
“In times of emergencies, the public looks to government, particularly their
Public Safety officials, to act swiftly and correctly, and do the things which must
be done to save lives, help the injured, and restore order. Most disasters occur
without warning, but people still expect a rapid and flawless response on the part
of government. There is no room for error. Whether involving a vehicle accident,
crime, plane crash, special event, or any other Public Safety activity…”3
There are more than 18,000 law enforcement agencies and 32,000 fire and 17,000 EMS agencies
and there are approximately 7,000 primary and secondary Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAPs) across the Nation. 4 While Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) were built to give
the public fast and easy access to emergency services through a single point of contact within a
defined jurisdiction, over time the PSAP became far more than just centers receiving 9-1-1
calls.5 As new responsibilities were added, new computer systems were created to handle them.
This was occurring at the same time that existing systems were growing in complexity.
2 Department of Homeland Security Office of Emergency Communications, Association of Public Safety
Communications Officials (APCO), National Emergency Number Association (NENA), Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS), FCC’s Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC),
Kimball & Associates, State of Minnesota PSAP Consolidation Guidebook.
3 Public Safety Wireless Advisory Committee (PSWAC) Final Report, presented to the Chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and the Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA).
4 FCC registry shows 7666 PSAPs but some are no longer active.
5 For example, PSAPs also handle 3-1-1 calls (social services help line) and alerting functions for the public (reverse
9-1-1).
Page 9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
The communication center is at the heart of a public safety organization’s ability to respond to
emergency situations requiring the dispatch of police, fire and emergency medical services.
Utilizing 9-1-1 as a single nationwide emergency number has revolutionized the way citizens
reach these services for assistance. According to the National Emergency Number Association
(NENA), in the U.S. alone, a staggering 240 million 9-1-1 calls are received by Public Safety
Answering Points (PSAPs) annually across the nation and this volume of calls continues to
increase.6 Fueling this growth has been an increasing portion from cellular callers and a
disproportionate amount of non-emergency calls received by these 9-1-1 centers. It is estimated
that some 25 to 60 percent of all calls received by PSAPs come from wireless phones.
The success and acceptance of 9-1-1 brings new challenges forcing these communications
centers to address both current and emerging technology issues. Many PSAPs were
implemented using technology prevalent during the 1970s to 1990s wireline communications
based on analog circuit switched technologies. Many of these centers are now hard pressed to
deal with growing call volumes, providing the most effective and efficient emergency
communications possible, enhancing coordination between responding agencies, delivering
reliable 24x7 services, embracing new communication center technologies and moving to next
generation solutions.
It is important that emergency response personnel at all levels of government, and across
disciplines, can communicate as needed, on demand, and as authorized. Most government
owned wireless infrastructure that supports emergency response exists at the State and local
levels. While many State and local agencies have modernized and expanded their systems
through mechanisms such as Federal grant programs, or they are currently in the process of
doing so, the communication challenges for those working on the front lines in public safety
have not been eliminated.
3.1 Technical Architecture
As a society, we place many demands on the emergency responders who safeguard our
communities; this means the mission critical technologies our public safety officials use every
day must meet exceedingly high standards as well. Central command and communications,
whether on scene or back at the main dispatch center, is a critical cornerstone to any public
safety mission. Multiple solutions including Next Generation 9-1-1, mapping, radio systems,
and computer aided dispatch; records, video, and location services provide access to information
leading to safer and smarter decisions and faster and more positive outcomes.7
6 According to the National Emergency Number Association (NENA)
7 Technical support was provided by Intrado who has pioneered improvements to the 9-1-1 network, helping to
enhance the quality of emergency response in the United States and Motorola known around the world for
innovation in communications from broadband communications infrastructure, enterprise mobility and public safety
solutions to mobile and wireline digital communication devices.
Page 10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Integrated Command
Center
IP Transport 4G Broadband
PSAP Dispatch
Multimedia Triggers Mobile Computing
Telephony LMR
Citizen Two‐Way
911 Call Radio
Figure 3 - Technical Architecture Integrated Command Center
On one hand, technology often times brings complexity and solutions must be engineered on
how individuals react in stressful situations. Equipment and systems must be designed and
tested to be simple and intuitive for the operator. As the sheer volume of interactions continues
to increase, the challenge is to integrate all communications, applications and data to and from a
command center. The increased complexity has translated into both higher costs to procure and
maintain the technology as well as increased training requirements for employees. The
traditional revenue streams relied on by 9-1-1 centers is not keeping pace with the costs to
refresh and maintain the technology. The convergence of technical systems when combined with
the escalating costs of maintaining those same systems makes consolidation a serious
consideration for decision makers. Past technology drivers were the transition from analog to
digital systems. Current technology roadmaps are moving towards standardization, convergence,
common technology platforms, and common protocols.
As technology continues to transition, telecommunicators will need to assimilate, assess and
integrate applications using available voice, data and video streams for incident response.
Examples include computer aided dispatch (CAD), emergency calls, law enforcement databases,
video cameras, historical records and more. In the immediate future, it will be necessary to
converge voice, data, and video information to optimize real-time decision making. New data
sources based on the location, type of incident, and assigned personnel will stress resources as
telecommunicators will need to prioritize and distribute only the most relevant data to responders
in the field. At the heart of every public safety mission is the ability to communicate in an
instant, each and every time using basic voice and data communications. Database queries over
Page 11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
today’s narrowband radio networks are supporting a wide variety of applications. Consolidation
of radio systems in the long term can significantly increase communications interoperability by
placing first responders on the same platform. Next generation broadband wireless networks
promise to enable powerful and innovative solutions that will add real-time awareness to
emergency responder communications. These new broadband networks will need to meet the
demanding requirements of the public safety community. The long term technological
challenge is to assure that public safety’s requirements drive development of next generation
solutions. Next generation technology will require a more regional approach to deployments
and effective partnerships across agencies and regions will become more critical. Technology is
a critical element in advancing consolidation efforts, but it is not the sole element. Consolidation
is a complex, multi-dimensional issue that involves technological, strategic, tactical, and cultural
change.
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
4.1 Analysis
The working group agreed to explore consolidation issues by interviewing experts who had been
involved in successful consolidations to glean lessons learned that produced the richest
understanding of the challenges and effective practices each consolidation project required. The
group developed a set of interview questions so that all data would be collected in a similar
manner making it easier to compare and contrast the studies. The group members own
experiences provided a starting point from which the group went on to identify consolidation
efforts from across the country and representatives willing to share their experiences. The
following Table 2 identifies the list of organizations interviewed as case study participants with
reference to the specific consolidation discipline.
Table 2 - Case Study Participants
Case Study Discipline
Arlington, Virginia PSAP & Communications
Dakota County, Minnesota PSAP
Denco - area (Dallas, TX) PSAP
DHS Office of Emergency Communications
Communications
Hamilton County, Ohio PSAP
Metropolitan Emergency Services PSAP Management & Oversight; Regional
Board Emergency Communications System
Pacific County, Washington PSAP & Communications
State of Michigan Communications
State of Minnesota Communications
State of Vermont 9-1-1 Network Infrastructure
State of Washington 9-1-1 Network
Walla Walla, Washington Operations and Facility Technology
Consolidation
Page 12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
4.2 Abbreviated Interview Questionnaire
The abbreviated interview questionnaire below and included in full as Appendix – 1 was
developed by the group and piloted with work group representatives and fine tuned to assure the
interview tool addressed key issues.
– Describe the type of consolidation. – Please describe how Fiduciary
– How long has organization been oversight/responsibility is handled?
consolidated? – How do you handle Operational Cost
– Describe the demographics of the Distribution?
consolidation. – How do you handle Capital Cost
– How was the consolidation effort Distribution?
initiated? – How is Funding structured?
– Describe the initial goals of this – Specifically, describe the formula, if any
consolidation, e.g. reduce costs, improve that is used to allocate costs between the
efficiency, etc. various participants.
– What threats to consolidation arose at – How is communications between the
the time of consolidation or in the consolidated agency and the stakeholder
planning stages? groups handled?
– Please elaborate on any Legislative – Please describe the compensation
changes that were needed to allow for program for the consolidated agency.
consolidation. – Was it necessary to integrate various
– How was governance established? work groups in the consolidation
– Please describe the governance model process and how was this handled?
used in this consolidation. – How has consolidation impacted
– How is (are) the governance/oversight operations?
committee(s) structured? – What are the strengths/benefits of
– Was the consolidation participation consolidation? What are the challenges?
mandated or one where you had to – What worked and what would you do
entice folks to participate? differently?
– How are elected officials involved either – For each of the initial goals listed
in the finalized consolidation or in the describe how well that goal was met.
process to establish the consolidated – Is there the potential to expand the scope
entity? of this consolidation further? If so,
– Are user agencies/stakeholders please describe.
involved? – Please describe if there are currently any
– How are decisions made? threats to continuing this consolidation?
– How were conflicts in standards – Based on your experience, please
resolved? provide three effective practices that
– Please describe the Management & make for a successful consolidation.
Oversight function of this consolidation.
– How are Administrative Services for the
consolidated agency handled?
Page 13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation
4.3 Agency Case Study Participants
Working Group #1A gratefully acknowledges the assistance of the case study participants in
preparing this report. The following summarize participants experiences in consolidation efforts
and highlight challenges and effective practices used in preparing this report.
Arlington, Virginia
Starting in 1981 the county board, police and fire
chiefs began the consolidation of police, fire and
Improving efficiencies were met by
emergency medical dispatch services with the providing a centralized dispatch
motivation to reduce fire department costs. The fire service through common technology
platforms.
department reduced costs by returning the firefighters
to the stations and increasing the number of station
personnel on duty. A fully trained emergency communications technician is cross-trained as a
police, fire and EMS telecommunicator, providing the necessary staff to handle the growing
workload. Improving efficiencies were met by providing a centralized dispatch service, common
technology platforms, such as one computer aided dispatch (CAD) system serving
police/fire/EMS over a common radio system. The strengths are delivery of service from central
location, and cross-trained personnel. The most significant ongoing challenge is the length of
time required to train personnel in all functions.
Dakota County, Minnesota
Unifying dispatch services in Dakota County,
Minnesota has been discussed and dismissed several The need to obtain operational and
times since 1973. Consolidating five public safety economic efficiencies, address
answering points (PSAPs) into one centralized regulatory factors, increase
interoperability between agencies,
dispatch center became a reality in 2007 due to a
coupled with the support of the public
partnership forged between twelve local governments
and the political will to act, led to the
with the collective desire to provide efficient services establishment of the Dakota
and save taxpayers’ dollars. Dakota County has a Communications Center.
population of approximately 388,000 and covers an
area of 587 square miles. It is comprised of one-third urban and two-thirds rural population
areas. The urban areas include first ring suburbs to the metropolitan Minneapolis/St. Paul area.
This area is densely populated with a large commuting population. The Dakota Communication
Center serves twelve law enforcement agencies.
In 2004, Dakota County and the eleven cities (with populations over 10,000) within the County
formed the High Performance Partnership (HiPP) program. The purpose of HiPP is to identify
and analyze potential collaboration opportunities between the twelve local governments that may
result in cost efficiencies and improved services. A citizen forum conducted as a part of the
initial HiPP analysis found that 61% of the participants would support shared arrangements
among local units of government in providing police services and 75% in providing fire services.
The HiPP evaluation determined that the unification of five PSAPS into one, centralized PSAP
had the greatest opportunity for both economic and operational efficiencies.
During the same time, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) mandated local
government to convert to narrow band radio systems by 2013, rendering most public safety
systems in Dakota County obsolete. The public safety agencies (police, fire, EMS) in Dakota
County recommended migration to the Twin Cities metropolitan 800MHz communications
system to improve interoperability between each other. The high cost to equip five PSAPs withThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
800 MHz technology was a potential barrier to the participation of the individual local
governments. Preliminary HiPP estimates showed considerable cost savings would be possible
by equipping a single PSAP for 800 MHz as opposed to five separate PSAPs.
The Dakota Communications Center (DCC) was officially established with the signing of the
Joint Powers Agreement (JPA) in September 2005 by the twelve DCC Members (Dakota
County; Apple Valley, Burnsville, Eagan, Farmington, Hastings, Inver Grove Heights, Lakeville,
Mendota Heights, Rosemount, South St. Paul, and West St. Paul). In June 2006, the
groundbreaking was held for the state-of the-art facility, with occupancy in August 2007. The
Dakota Communications Center was open for business on December 27, 2007 only two years
after the signing of the JPA.
Denco (Denton County, TX)
The Denton County Area 9-1-1 District (Denco) is a
special purpose emergency communication district Denco district found numerous threats
to consolidation arose at the time of
created by a voter referendum in 1987. The sole
consolidation and during the planning
purpose was to install and maintain 9-1-1 emergency
stages.
communication services throughout Denton County,
Texas its thirty-four cities and some areas overlapping
into adjacent counties. Denco since its creation in 1987 has provided 9-1-1 services at eleven
sites. Services that Denco provides include 9-1-1 call taking equipment and training, database
maintenance and accuracy performance, routing and equipment maintenance. Denco also
provides a broad training program for telecommunicators, public education, legislative and
regulatory advocacy and technology planning and coordination for the agencies within its region.
It also provides screening and testing for potential telecommunicators. Denco does not provide
PSAP dispatch operation services. The desire for consistent service levels across the county and
continued local control drove City and Fire Department Leaders to initiate discussion on how
best to achieve the goals without intervention by State government. A single, district wide user
service fee was envisioned so that no local taxes by participating cities and county would be
necessary or be a part of the county or state appropriation process thereby protecting the funds.
There also was a Public Safety initiative to keep the effort as non-political as possible while
seeking a design for consistent service under local control.
DHS Office of Emergency Communications
The Department of Homeland Security Office of
Emergency Communications (OEC) supports and The Office of Emergency
promotes the ability of emergency responders and Communications (OEC) establishes
government officials to communicate in the event of coordination through partnerships
with State, local, and tribal
natural disasters, acts of terrorism, or other
organizations, the public safety
catastrophic events, and works to ensure, accelerate,
community and federal agencies to
and attain interoperable and operable emergency improve alignment of strategic and
communications nationwide. OEC offers States and operational emergency
territories Technical Assistance (TA) and Grant communications planning across all
levels of government.
Coordination through the Interoperable Emergency
Communications Grant Program (IECGP) and
focuses on the coordination activities required to improve interoperable communications.
IECGP funds focus on Governance, Training and exercises and SOP development. The Office
of Emergency Communications also is responsible for the National Emergency Communications
Plan (NECP). The NECP outlines an integrated emergency communications strategy for local,
tribal, State and Federal public safety support and response organizations and the citizens they
Page 15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
serve. The update of the NECP will build upon the purpose, scope and vision of NECP 2008,
will reference and continue to focus on mission critical wireless technologies, the use of
broadband by the Nation’s emergency responders and will provide a roadmap to help the
migration to an integrated communications environment.
Hamilton County, Ohio
The Hamilton County Department of
Communications consists of two divisions. The The Hamilton County Department of
Communications operates on the
Public Safety Division is a consolidated 9-1-1 center
premise that there is “nothing we have
that serving the emergency communications needs of
to offer but service”.
over 105 police, fire and EMS agencies in forty-seven
political jurisdictions. The Telecommunications
Division supports the telephone, data, and Wireless Area Network infrastructure and security
needs for all Hamilton County departments. The Communication Center handles an average of
800,000 calls annually; serving a population of over 500,000 residents. The Department was
established as a consolidated communication center in 1949 by the Board of County
Commissioners (BOCC). Prior to 1949 communications were operated by the Sheriff’s
Department. Due to the length of time that has passed since the Department was formed, there is
no definitive historical record that clearly explains the drivers were that led to the department’s
formation.
For most of the department’s history, governance was the sole purview of the Board of County
Commissioners. Since consolidation evolved over a 60 year period under the continuous
authority of the BOCC, it was never necessary to integrate other work groups into the
consolidation process. The BOCC did establish a Board of Advisor’s (BOA) made up of
representative constituent user groups in the mid 1980’s. The BOA was given policy and
procedure oversight and could make budgetary recommendations to the Board of County
Commissioners who retained final authority. A set of By-Laws were developed spelling the
BOA’s responsibilities and authority. A membership formula was structured beginning with
representation from the largest political subdivision based on population. The remaining seats
were filled by the following constituent groups; Police Chief’s Association, Fire Chiefs
Association, Municipal League, Township Trustees, Sheriff’s Department, Valley Users Group,
and County Administrator. To insure that there is continual dialogue and input from the user
agencies, the Hamilton County Police Chiefs and Fire Chiefs each have communications
committees that regularly meet with the Department’s staff to discuss operational and procedural
issues.
All participation by jurisdictions in the county is voluntary. The department has grown over the
years based on the quality of service, access to state of the art communications technology, and
value. The only incentive that a prospective community receives is a waiver of their first year’s
fee for service. This is offered to insure that police, fire, and EMS agencies have the needed
funds to purchase the required compatible radio equipment. Participation requires a contractual
agreement between the political jurisdiction and the Board of County Commissioners. The
agreement spells out the fee formula that is assessed to the community based on a per detail cost.
The department operates on the premise that there is “nothing we have to offer but service”. The
Department is committed to insuring that every user agency or constituent group should not have
to settle for less than the highest standards in a public safety communication center. Currently the
average 9-1-1 call answering time is 2 seconds. And the average in-house call processing time
Page 16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
for emergency medical services is 60 seconds. The department strives to create a culture of
caring about people. The department has demonstrated this commitment by adopting all
established state and national standards. The department was the first PSAP in the nation to
become a certified Partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children
(NCMEC). This partnership is testament to the department’s commitment of creating a “Child
Centered PSAP”. The department’s Employee Evaluation Program is based on the proposition
that exceptional performance is the expected norm. All serious incidents and a percentage of
EMS calls are reviewed for quality assurance and adherence to performance standards. A
percentage of EMD calls are also reviewed monthly by the Department’s Medical Director.
The department recognizes that new personnel do not have the luxury of learning from their
mistakes, so all Communications Officers receive six months of supervised training. All
Communications Officers are crossed trained in all positions i.e.; Call Taker, Police Radio
Dispatcher, Fire & EMS Radio Dispatcher, and Teletype Services. All personnel must complete
the APCO Emergency Medical Dispatch Training Program. And all personnel receive formal
training that meets the ANSI standard for processing calls reporting missing and abducted
children. Staffing and retention continues to be a challenge. On average, due the geographical
size of the department and the large number of jurisdictions served, it takes approximately two
years for a Communication Officer to become fully competent. The department requires that a
candidate for an entry level supervisory position have a minimum of five years of experience.
There are total of 49 political jurisdictions in Hamilton County and a total of four PSAPs.
Currently there are discussions underway to explore the possibility of combining the Hamilton
County Department of Communications and the City of Cincinnati Communications Division.
Metropolitan Emergency Services Board Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota
In 1982 the Metropolitan Emergency Services Board
was formed within the greater metropolitan area of The MESB consolidation supports
Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. Prior to this, public safety elements provided to a
region of counties. The regional
each metro area city or county handled law
approach provides greater influence in
enforcement, fire and emergency medical services
dealing with the State, the 9-1-1
notification and response independently. With the service provider, and stakeholders in
implementation of 9-1-1 as the single number to dial general and is positioned for the
for police fire or medical taking hold across the transition to Next Generation of 9-1-1.
country, several key leaders came together to
advocate for a single entity to manage 9-1-1 services, deal with the single telephone company of
the day, and accept responsibility for managing the quality of the 9-1-1 database used to provide
telephone number, subscriber name and address location information to the call taker at the 32
PSAPs in the metro area. It was determined by this grassroots group of metro area public safety
leaders that a single board of County Commissions from the seven metro counties should form
the Metropolitan 9-1-1 Board and take on the management of these services on behalf of all the
PSAPs.
In the 1995-96 timeframe, the Metropolitan 9-1-1 Board absorbed fiscal oversight for regional
EMS programming and became full-time manager of a regional EMS program in 1998, receiving
grant funds to provide a forum for regional EMS planning, mass casualty incident coordination,
training, EMS research and public education. In 2005, the existing Metropolitan Radio Board
(MRB), which had been responsible for implementing a region-wide 800 MHz public safety
radio system, was due to sunset and needed to either turn over responsibilities to the State of
Page 17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Minnesota or find a new oversight agency to manage its funds and responsibilities on behalf of
the metro region users. It was logical that the MRB look to an existing board like the
Metropolitan 9-1-1 Board to continue its work. The differences in the board composition,
funding structure, and operations between the boards were negotiated between the two boards
prior to a full merger which occurred at the end of 2006. The name of the new organization is
the Metropolitan Emergency Services Board (MESB).
The Metropolitan Emergency Services Board is a Joint Powers Association of nine counties.
The Board is responsible for the management and oversight of the metro area 9-1-1 network, 9-
1-1 database and metro area GIS, regional 800 MHz public safety communications radio system,
and regional EMS program. The consolidation of administrative and technology management
for related services within the nine county regions provide an efficient and consistent approach to
that management and oversight responsibility. The bringing together of the 3 areas (9-1-1, radio,
and EMS) and the associated Technical Operations Committees under the governance of the
MESB has allowed a broader and more thorough analysis of issues impacting the MESB, and
better recommendations for the basis of technical and policy decisions by the Board.
Pacific County, Washington
The key driver for this consolidation was Washington
state mandate for the provision of 9-1-1 services Participation by elected officials was
most important to the process as each
which did not exist in the county prior to this effort.
represented their jurisdiction
Consolidation began in 1994. The initial goals of
Pacific County Communications and Emergency
Mgmt consolidation was to offer 9-1-1 service county-wide with dependable 24/7 operation.
All aspects are consolidated – the facility, operations, communications – telephone, radio, and
data. PACCOM serves all public safety agencies in the county. Political issues posed threats to
consolidation and participation by elected officials was most important to the process as each
represented their jurisdiction. Legislative changes were needed to allow for consolidation, as all
jurisdictions signed on to an Interlocal Agreement. Consolidation brought about changes in the
administrative approach and increased workload for dispatch staff. The challenge is trying to
make everyone happy, while recognizing that not everyone is going to be happy with the manner
in which service is provided – particularly at the outset of the consolidation.
State of Michigan State Police
In 1984, and again in 1989, the Michigan State Police
(MSP) contracted feasibility studies to evaluate two The goals of the MSP consolidation
basic dispatch configurations⎯dispatching from each were:
individual post or consolidating dispatch at the district • Reduce costs
• Support operational services
level. The study projected a $6.8M savings in
• Need to leverage the investment in
personnel costs and $3.4M in equipment
communication systems and
requirements, and cited standardized equipment,
E9-1-1 technologies
uniform procedures, and specialized training of
dispatch personnel as advantages of consolidation. As a result of budget restrictions and closure
of 24 x 7 posts, the department moved forward with the consolidation project in 1991, bringing
65 separate post dispatch operations to seven district centers. To achieve further budgetary
savings, two of the seven district centers were closed in 2008, and their activity transferred to the
other five centers.
Page 18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
The Michigan State Police (MSP) initiated a statewide radio project, the Michigan Public Safety
Communications System (MPSCS) in the 1990s that has grown to include 50,000 users at 1,500
local agencies, 21 state agencies, and 16 federal agencies. Michigan encompasses a wide variety
of locales, from dense urban areas to rural and wilderness areas. The MPSCS is designed to
serve the entire state of Michigan, with a population of approximately 10 million residents and
an area of 57,800 square miles. Some agencies use the MPSCS as their primary radio system,
while others use it for inter-agency interoperability. The ability to communicate seamlessly with
any public safety agency, regardless of geographic location, has supported dispatch consolidation
efforts in Michigan.
State of Minnesota Statewide Radio ARMER Project
The Statewide Radio Board was created by the
Minnesota legislature in 2004 to implement the
The mission of the Statewide Public
Statewide Interoperable Public Safety Radio and Safety Radio System Planning
Communication System Plan. That plan evolved out Committee is to be responsible for
of the implementation of a region-wide interoperable developing and implementing a project
plan for a statewide, shared, trunked
radio system in the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan
public safety radio communications
area in 2001. At the time the Statewide Radio Board
system in Minnesota, to develop and
was created the Statewide Interoperable Public Safety apply statewide standards and
Radio and Communication System was given the guidelines for interoperability and to
name of Allied Radio Matrix for Emergency Response initiate an education plan to
stakeholders.
(ARMER). The ARMER system is a major element
of Minnesota's long term interoperable
communication planning, but not the only element. There is an immediate and pressing need for
interoperable public safety communication planning among all emergency responders and the
Statewide Radio Board is a broad forum representing all public safety disciplines from across the
state.
The State of Minnesota ARMER program is a statewide interoperable emergency
communications 800 MHz radio system consolidated under one unit of government which owns
and operates the backbone of the system. Local agencies are permitted to use the backbone
network and at their choosing enhance their local communications for portable and in-building
coverage. The ARMER system is a joint operation and shared structure in a number of
significant ways. The system is technically owned and operated by the Minnesota Department of
Transportation under the direction of the Statewide Radio Board which dictates the plan, while
the Department of Public Safety manages the funding for the system. All three elements are
important to the checks and balances of the project. A fundamental element of the ARMER plan
is that it provides the opportunity for all public safety/service entities to achieve the highest level
of interoperability by operating upon a shared platform. That platform is a scalable 700/800
MHz trunked Motorola Smart Zone radio system that can address the expanding roles of public
safety/service entities and their interoperability needs.
Minnesota’s strength in cooperative governing is reflected in the governance structure developed
around the ARMER plan. The governance structure actually began in 1995 when the
Metropolitan Radio Board (MRB) was established by the Minnesota legislature to oversee the
implementation of the ARMER backbone in the Twin Cities metropolitan area. As that regional
plan was implemented, the basic structural design of a multidiscipline board with regional
representation provided a model for the evolution to the current Statewide Radio Board (SRB).
This governance structure addresses the need for local and regional planning and participation
Page 19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
throughout the State by the existence and ongoing development of regional advisory committees
(RAC) and regional radio boards (RRB). The RAC/RRB members represent local government
and provide for participation of tribal and NGO public safety and service providers.
Local participation played a critical role in the development of Minnesota’s regional governance
structure. In 2005, Minnesota’s Statewide Radio Board instructed local interoperable
communications practitioners to identify the State’s governance regions. Five years later, local
practitioners had identified seven regions that spanned the state from Northeastern to
Southwestern Minnesota. In general, practitioners identified regions that aligned with the State’s
Homeland Security regions. In one instance, however, locals determined that it was best for their
region to align to an emergency services region instead.
State of Vermont Enhanced 9-1-1 Board
The State of Vermont has a single entity, the Vermont
The success of Vermont’s 9-1-1 system
Enhanced 9-1-1 Board that operates a single 9-1-1
is largely due to the foresight of the
system covering the entire state. The enabling statute
enabling legislation that was written in
does allow for municipalities to apply for a waiver and
1994 and has proven to be visionary.
opt-out if they provide a 9-1-1 system that meets all
the requirements set by the Board; however, only the University of Vermont has chosen this
route. Since the University has discontinued supplying phones in dorms, and students using cell
phones to call 9-1-1 would be routed into the statewide 9-1-1 system, the statewide system
handles virtually all but a small fraction of a percent of 9-1-1 calls made in Vermont.
In 1994 the Vermont Legislature established the Vermont Enhanced 9-1-1 Board and tasked it
with developing and operating a single statewide enhanced 9-1-1 system. Initially, the system
was comprised of ten PSAPs and approximately thirty Limited Secondary PSAPs (LSPs). LSPs
were dispatch points that had the ability to receive ANI/ALI information from a PSAP. The
single statewide system went live in November of 1998. In February of 2007, the original circuit
based ISDN system was replaced with a packet switched TCP/IP system that was arguably the
first statewide “Next Generation” 9-1-1 system. At that time, the LSPs were decommissioned.
Due to the efficiencies provided by an IP based 9-1-1 system, two of the original ten PSAPs also
have been decommissioned in recent years, leaving eight PSAPs. Vermont is now in the process
of replacing this system, and by July of 2011 expects to have a system that closely resembles
what is envisioned in the next generation 9-1-1 standards (NENA i3)8.
The state of Vermont has a population of approximately 621,000 people and an area of 9,250
square miles. Due to its close proximity to major east coast metropolitan areas, Vermont
receives 13 million visitors each year. The state is primarily rural, with several population
centers. For the past several years, the 9-1-1 system has handled approximately 185,000 calls per
year. In 2009, 54% of 9-1-1 calls were made from non-wireline devices, such as cell phones or
VoIP devices. This is up from 52% in 2008 and 47% in 2007. There are sixty-seven law
enforcement agencies, 127 EMS agencies, and 242 fire departments in the state of Vermont.
Vermont’s 9-1-1 system currently has twenty-eight call-taking positions in eight physical PSAPs,
8 The National Emergency Number Association (NENA) is developing a set of standards to support the development
of Next Generation, TCP/IP-based, 9-1-1 systems. Collectively, these are known as the NENA i3 standards. More
information can be found on the NENA website, at http://www.nena.org/taxonomy/term/129.
Page 20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
plus four positions in the Board’s training room that can be used as a standby PSAP. All of these
positions operate as a single virtual PSAP; any 9-1-1 call made in the state of Vermont can be
answered and handled equally well from any of the eight PSAPs, or in the training room when it
activated as a standby PSAP. While the Board operates the system, it does not operate any
PSAPs. Instead it has MOUs with five other agencies; the Vermont Department of Public Safety,
which operates four PSAPs; and three local police departments, and a county sheriff department,
each operating a single PSAP.
The Board trains and certifies call-takers, but does not employ them. All call-takers are
employed by the department that hosts their PSAP. All of the call-handling equipment is
provided by the Board. This consolidation only involves 9-1-1 call-taking. Radios and dispatch
are handled individually by each agency. The Board has a staff of ten who manage the contract
with the system provider, work with the telephone companies, train call-takers, manage the ALI
database, and maintain the GIS data, among other duties.
At the time the enabling legislation was passed, 9-1-1 was not widely available in Vermont. Due
to Vermont’s rural nature, local emergency responder agencies were not large enough to
implement a 9-1-1 system. Creating a single statewide system was seen as the only feasible way
to bring 9-1-1 service to all Vermonters. The establishment of a statewide 9-1-1 agency was
driven by the Vermont Legislature. Privacy advocates had a significant role while the legislation
was crafted, which is reflected in the privacy provisions of the statute. Anecdotally, the creation
of an independent board was in partially in response to concerns some had at that time about
trusting a state agency, such as the Department of Public Safety, with information such as
addresses and phone numbers for all Vermonters.
State of Washington
The entire structure of the state E9-1-1 operations is
geared toward being able to implement statewide The State of Washington found a trend
operational changes while maintaining local control of technology in 9-1-1 is toward
systems that demand a greater degree
over the PSAP operations. The state provides the
of consolidation to be successful.
network that was actually consolidated from direct
fragmented management by the counties, and that
consolidation is a critical element in the capability to implement NG9-1-1. The implementation
of the state program also was done with incentives for counties to consolidate their 9-1-1 call
answering, and dispatch, into one PSAP per county which resulted in major consolidation efforts
on the parts of the counties to eliminate hundreds of answering points. The trend of technology
in 9-1-1 has been toward systems that demand a greater degree of consolidation to be successful.
Basic 9-1-1 with the links to the local telephone company’s central office was quite simple.
Enhanced 9-1-1 required wide area management of network and routing data systems if calls
were to be routed correctly. Wireless 9-1-1 entered the picture and obliterated the concept of
geographic boundaries on the carrier side creating the need on the operations side to be able to
transfer calls across state lines or even international boundaries. NG9-1-1 continues that trend
with issues such as security that we in the industry must learn to manage with no thought of
boundaries, and we do have the opportunity to consolidate much of the operations that manage
calls totally without regard to traditional geopolitical considerations.
Page 21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
WESCOM (Walla Walla, Washington)
In 1984 the Walla Walla Fire Department and County
The primary challenges to
Fire District 4 consolidated, with the remaining
consolidation relate to basic human
agencies joining between 1994 and 1997, with the nature and a fear of both loss of
exception of the Walla Walla Airport (which is now control and decrease in responsibility.
contracting services through the Walla Walla County Once these challenges can be
effectively met, the benefits quickly
Fire District 4), and the US VA Medical Center
outweigh the negative aspects by
(which joined in 2010). WESCOM is a dispatch
allowing for more cost effective
consolidation for 17 agencies - the Walla Walla staffing and equipping and training of
Police Dept, the Walla Walla Fire Department, Walla emergency call receiving personnel.
Walla County Sheriff’s Office, College Place Fire
Department, College Place Police Department, US VA Medical Center, Walla Walla County Fire
Districts 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Walla Walla County Coroner’s Office, Public Work agencies
within Walla Walla County. WESCOM provides digital data communications for the law
enforcement agencies serving a population of approximately 58,000.
When 9-1-1 services were implemented in Walla Walla, discussions were held to see if public
dollars could be saved by combining dispatch services for the police and fire departments. The
initial combination was the Walla Walla Fire Department and Walla Walla Police Department,
and soon afterwards the County Fire Districts all joined into a single dispatch operation which
was administered by the Walla Walla Police Department. This eliminated the need for every
agency to have separate dispatch personnel and equipment. Centralized dispatch has allowed for
cost savings both in equipment and personnel, and has resulted in a better trained and more
focused staff that is able to handle the needs of all local agencies and at levels that increase
public safety and services to the community.
4.4 Findings
Based upon the interviews and case studies conducted, the public safety agencies choosing
consolidation stated that their decisions were often driven by service quality levels, operational
concerns, technology obsolescence and
funding. The challenges practitioners
reported included transferring 9-1-1
calls among multiple communications
centers, difficulty in coordinating
multi-agency/multi-jurisdictional
responses among different dispatch
centers, concerns about sustainable
funding, tracking emerging
technologies (LMR, NG9-1-1, CAD,
etc.), critical systems and/or facilities in
need of refreshing/ replacement at
multiple sites, and performance and
Figure 4 - Value of Consolidation
service levels below expectations.
Page 22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Key process initiation strategies, consolidation benefits, the process for consolidation,
challenges, and lessons learned suggests that consolidation can be a lengthy and complex
process, with a value of consolidation leading to more effective and efficient service (Figure 4). 9
The common experience shared by case study participants suggests a typical consolidation
process includes the following six phases:
• Identification of an Effective Champion - Successful consolidations usually have one
trait in common, a well-respected champion to lead and spearhead the process from
beginning to end. Respondents stated consolidation represents a major culture change
and is often threatening to participating agencies long accustomed to having complete
control of their services.
• Interest Building – The process of developing interest in consolidation among
decision-makers and stakeholders is often met with skepticism and rejection. The
champion must meet with the affected parties and answer their initial questions with
enough clarity to address these concerns and doubts in order to build a body of trust
leading to interest. If enough interest exists, the process moves to the next phase of
conducting a feasibility study.
• Feasibility Study – A comprehensive study that:
– Benchmarks current 9-1-1 and dispatch services by examining a wide variety
of issues. These issues include staffing, call processing and dispatching,
budget, technology, political environment, and facilities.
– Determines if consolidation makes sense from a service level, political,
technological, and financial perspective.
– Makes recommendations for consolidation models, governance, funding,
staffing, technology and facilities.
• Planning Phase – Decisions regarding participation, funding formulas, organizational
structure, governance model, and human resources issues, facility and technology
needs and planning for procurements occurs in this phase.
• Implementation / Transition Phase – Technology procurement, installation and
training, facility construction or renovations, and procurement of furnishings all occur
in this phase.
• Post-Consolidation Phase – This is the time immediately after activation of the new
service. Service and technology issues are common during this phase. These issues
are not usually indicative of the success of the consolidation. Keeping these issues in
proper perspective is vital.
Another source that was utilized in the development of this report was data collected by the
APCO Consolidated Center Directors Network (CCDN). The CCDN has been working to gather
non-proprietary information about the consolidation of public safety communications centers.
One of the tools was the creation of a survey which was developed by the members of the
9 Graphic provided by L.R. Kimball is a professional services firm that provides fully integrated project design and
planning across architecture, civil and environmental engineering and communication technology services.
Page 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
network, who are Directors of consolidated centers from across the nation.10 The survey was
open for approximately two months and was completed by 198 individuals nationwide. For the
purposes of the survey, consolidation was defined as combining two or more Communications
Centers into a single facility and/or organization using one of several existing models. The
survey was comprised of questions that focused on areas of demographics, governance,
operational issues, staffing, and funding.
• Over 47% of respondents stated that they were motivated to consolidation because
research suggested economic benefits and 45% of the respondents stated that they
were motivated by suggested operational benefits.
• 69% of respondents stated that the largest challenge to consolidation was related to
personnel issues such as training, mingling of different staffs and unions, with 68% of
the respondents stating that securing “agency buy-in” was the next biggest challenge.
• Respondents were asked to rank benefits of consolidation, and over 84% of the
respondents stated that single point of contact and control was the biggest benefit.
Drawbacks to the consolidation process included interagency rivalry and politics.
• The organizational structure of the consolidated centers varied; however, over 72% of
the centers were civilian based, and the majority of consolidated centers are funded
through telephone surcharge fees (76%).
• Based upon the results of the survey, consolidated centers are diverse in their makeup
and populations served, with 29.6% of the centers having a population between
100,001 and 250,000, with over 27.5% who process between 250,001 and 500,000
calls for service annually.
The findings and effective practices as outlined in the following section are based upon the
results of interviews with public safety communications agencies and through the development
of the twelve case studies and survey data. Although this is a small sampling and it is not
intended to be representative of all, it became apparent that there are central themes, which
inform key findings and effective practices for the consolidation process.
10 On April 20, 2010, the APCO International Consolidated Communications Center Survey was released; results are
published here with permission.
Page 24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
4.5 Effective Practices
There are clear benefits to consolidation, the sharing of resources allows for the elimination of
duplicate costs, supports coordinated responses, greater interoperability, and ultimately leads to
more effective and efficient service. Whether public safety radio networks consolidation trends
towards regional, multi-jurisdictional and multi-disciplinary solutions or by consolidating
communications center PSAPs, these consolidations improve interoperability, operational
response and effectiveness and ultimately faster emergency response to a citizens’ call for
assistance.
The working group used its own technical and operational judgment to extract key findings and
effective practices from the case study analysis. Due to the wide variety of public safety
consolidation efforts, the working group found that consolidation strategies are most effectively
applied by leaving specific implementation decisions to individual participants. The working
group suggests that consolidation participants will find the case study findings helpful, and
should determine where and when to employ the highlighted effective practices.
Finding #1
Successful consolidations require that a trusted and secure
governance structure be established, a champion must lead the
project and the political leadership must be in place to support
the effort.
The consideration of possible consolidation models offers unique opportunities to create the
desired organization, not necessarily the one inherited from previous administrations or one
which has resulted because of numerous evolutions of various management styles. It is an
opportunity that can be both challenging and enlightening as the agencies involved explore how
they might collectively improve service levels for their constituencies⎯both the public and the
public safety response agencies they serve. Consolidation efforts cannot begin until the political
‘will’ exists to see the process through to completion. In some cases there will be tremendous
resistance to consolidate operations from key stakeholders and lobbying groups within individual
jurisdictions as it might mean fewer jobs and less control for participants. The political leaders
must objectively determine if consolidation can better serve their citizens and this should be the
overriding factor in their decision making process. The champion or project manager must be
respected and knowledgeable and must have the support of all parties. Since consolidation
projects can take a considerable amount of time, the person for this job should be prepared to see
the job through to the end and may be the one constant in the project as others, especially those
in decision making positions, will tend to be transitory.
Page 25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
• Effective Practice 1.1 - Consolidation efforts cannot begin until the political
‘will’ exists to see the process through to completion.
• Effective Practice 1.2 - Successful consolidations usually have one trait in
common, a well-respected champion to spearhead the process from
beginning to end.
Finding #2
Securing “agency buy-in” was the next biggest challenge.
Support for stakeholder defined goals and objectives, operational plans and the ability to ensure
understanding of stakeholder objectives is a critical component of a consolidation effort. A
primary issue for the partner agencies is to overcome the fear from loss of control and shared
responsibility. Agencies need to be convinced that loss of control is more than offset by the
benefits of joining a consolidated system, such as access to technology they could not afford on
their own, standardized procedures, and interoperability. The ability to prioritize sometimes
competing stakeholder goals and to balance risk with desired outcomes can be complicated but,
if well executed, rewarding to the organizations’ mission of shared and collaborative governance.
The ability to identify and pursue opportunities to work collaboratively with stakeholder partners
is essential when the success of the consolidated entity is a commonly shared vision.
• Effective Practice 2.1 - All participants, regardless of size must have a sense of
equal status in both governance and service delivery.
• Effective Practice 2.2 - Communicate honestly, meet to resolve issues often,
anticipate turf battles and unforeseen problems, allow for contingencies, and
treat all stakeholders equally.
Finding #3
Legislation may be necessary to create a sustainable funding
mechanism or codify relationships between the parties.
Although the technology and training requirements have changed drastically over the past 20
years, most of the funding legislation has not kept pace. Funding legislation has been altered in
many states by adding provisions for cellular surcharges and, in some cases, how 9-1-1 monies
can be spent. These changes in the law have rarely taken into account the additional burdens
being placed on 9-1-1 centers throughout the United States. Often times, consolidation was
created by voter referendum and legislative changes were needed to address the relationship
between key stakeholders. Typically, the legislative body established an independent board to
provide oversight and act in an advisory capacity. A concerted outreach effort has to be done to
get smaller agencies to participate in consolidation, especially when one of the partners is very
large.
Page 26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
• Effective Practice 3.1 - More often than not, legislation was required to
establish a sustainable funding mechanism and in some cases define structure.
• Effective Practice 3.2 - In each case, an education campaign for all
stakeholders and the public was necessary to gain approval of the legislation.
Finding #4
Formalize the arrangement through some sort of legal agreement
and to establish strong and clear membership structures.
The agreement can take many forms; the most important being that the agreement be clear, well
defined, and should define major responsibilities, expectations and dispute resolutions
procedures. In a typical scenario, local officials sign formal agreements outlining roles and
responsibilities, funding mechanisms and execute MOUs with participating agencies. Each
signatory must agree to adhere to the standards set by the board. A well-defined structure is
crucial for mitigating disputes. Establishment of specific structures for operation of the entity
such as voting by the stakeholders helps to define member roles and participation are crucial
items within the agreements.
• Effective Practice 4.1 – Agreements must be clear, well defined, and should
define major responsibilities, expectations and dispute resolution procedures.
• Effective Practice 4.2 - Whatever governance structure is agreed upon, it is
essential that an individual is appointed or hired who is responsible for
executing according to the policies and direction given by the Board.
• Effective Practice 4.3 - A consolidation that provides the supporting functions
to its members has many benefits and can easily be expanded to a complete
consolidation as needed.
• Effective Practice 4.4 - Emergency communication regions should be aligned
with other governance regions, e.g. EMS, Fire, Public Health, for maximum
efficiencies in governance.
Finding #5
Personnel issues are difficult and troubling in any consolidation
and require a great deal of thought at the policy level early on.
The responsibility for fostering of an organizational cultural that enhances the ability of the
participating entities to succeed falls on the shoulders of the governance model chosen and
adopted by the partner agencies. Communicating organizational values is a key mission of the
policy makers and the promotion of their practice and execution is the charge of the leadership.
Employees at all levels affected by the consolidation should be advised well in advance how the
consolidation will impact their income and benefits. Collective bargaining agreements may need
to be modified and ratified by those covered under them before decisions can be made.
Personnel policy and structure should be created at the beginning and codified in official
agreements. Importantly, personnel cannot be effectively managed by a committee so one entity
Page 27The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
needs to step up and assume this role for the consolidation. Empowering personnel to develop
successful work styles and take initiative which allows the agency to achieve maximum
effectiveness and the ability to facilitate an organizational culture in which a sense of common
purpose for achieving the goals and objectives of the agency is encouraged and has been
demonstrated in the case studies reviewed.
• Effective Practice 5.1 – Employees at all levels affected by the consolidation should
be advised well in advance how the consolidation will impact their income and
benefits.
• Effective Practice 5.2 – Personnel policy and structure should be created at the
inception of consolidation planning and codified in official agreements.
• Effective Practice 5.3 – Personnel cannot be effectively managed by a committee so
one entity needs to step up and assume this role for the consolidation.
Finding #6
Well defined communication channels among stakeholders and
the governing body is critical to successful consolidation.
A high degree of communication is necessary when dealing with multiple agencies and political
entities. Consolidation efforts are often met with seemingly unforeseen challenges, open
communications and frequent discussions to identify and address issues of concern will help to
alleviate the perceived threats and problems. Stakeholder communication is a critical component
for successful consolidations efforts and can be facilitated through board members who represent
stakeholder groups. Often there are mandated meetings for stakeholder groups or bi-monthly
user group meetings to keep managers and staff informed and to give them a voice. Various
communications tools, such as a website is used to post meeting information, minutes, planning
documents, regular newsletters are used to update stakeholders including policy-level officials.
Successful consolidation efforts allow the entities to establish policies and procedures and set
priorities that are fair and equitable to all stakeholders. It further allows for a broad analysis of
issues and opportunities to ensure that performance meets expectations and results in measurable
improvement in the standard of care for all the stakeholders participating in the effort.
• Effective Practice 6.1 – Stakeholder communication can be facilitated through
board members who represent stakeholder groups.
• Effective Practice 6.2 – Mandated meetings for stakeholder groups or user
group meetings are necessary to keep staff informed.
• Effective Practice 6.3 – Communications tools are used to update stakeholders
including policy-level officials.
• Effective Practice 6.4 – Open communications and frequent discussions help to
identify and address issues of concern.
Page 28The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Finding #7
Consolidation can produce long term cost efficiencies by
reducing operations and technology duplication.
While cost savings are possible, two points are critical. First, not all consolidations result in cost
savings. Second, in those scenarios where cost savings are achievable the actual realization of the
savings may not occur for several years due to capital and other start-up costs. If done after
careful study, consolidations can reduce long term costs to the respective agencies even if the
short term costs may increase. In most cases, having an emphasis on improving service with cost
saving as a result was a much more realistic goal than placing the emphasis on cost savings and
hoping for service improvements as a result. The benefit of technology consolidation is the
shared infrastructure that helps speed up communication, information access and dissemination
yielding lower response time, improved quality of service and enabling collaboration between
different agencies during an incident.
Lack of sustainable funding, especially in rural areas provide strong incentives to consolidate.
Conversely, higher funding levels tend to hinder consolidation efforts. As local funding
decreases, agencies are willing to consolidate greater portions of their functionality, and accept
the often incorrect perception that they have to give up local control. Mandated technology
changes often create a fiscal burden that could only be addressed through consolidation. Budget
restrictions inhibit the ability to keep pace with technology is another key driver for
consolidation; individual agencies cannot afford new technology on their own.
Allocation of costs between participating stakeholders can take many forms. Stakeholders must
define what is equitable for their particular type of consolidation and that the established funding
mechanism or cost allocation structure be sustainable. Incentivizing consolidation will bring
more benefit and eliminate more challenges than mandating a consolidation. Capital costs and
reserves should be planned and budgeted for by the stakeholders and based on an equitable
formula that is codified in the organizations governing agreements. The stakeholders should
collaboratively define fiscal responsibilities and reporting mechanisms to establish a path toward
cost effectiveness, joint participation, and demonstrated fiscal accountability. Finally, it is
important to develop a realistic funding method that seeks sustainable funding source(s) which
may be separate and different from normal appropriation mechanisms.
• Effective Practice 7.1 – Having an emphasis on improving service with cost
saving as a result was a much more realistic goal than placing the emphasis on
cost savings and hoping for service improvements as a result.
• Effective Practice 7.2 – The benefit of technology consolidation is the shared
infrastructure that improves quality of service and interoperability enabling
collaboration between different agencies during an incident.
• Effective Practice 7.3 –Stakeholders define what is equitable for their particular
type of consolidation and that the established funding mechanism or cost
allocation structure be sustainable.
Page 29The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
• Effective Practice 7.4 – Incentivizing consolidation will bring more benefit and
eliminate more challenges than mandating a consolidation. Rather than just
providing incentive for countywide consolidation, there should be incentives for
multicounty/ state consolidations.
• Effective Practice 7.5 – Capital costs should be planned and budgeted for by the
stakeholders and based on an equitable formula that is codified in the
organizations governing agreements.
Finding #8
Consolidation results in better trained and more focused work
force, increasing the level of public safety.
Consolidation has a positive impact on staff training and professionalism, which improves
service level overall. Typically, the independent state board set call taker standards and trains
and certifies call takers employed by local agencies. Consolidation has had a positive effect on
the professionalism of the staff. Standardized training provided by consolidation positively
impacts service level and consistency across the region or service area. In many cases,
consolidation provides a better career path for staff in smaller agencies, which aids in employee
retention.
• Effective Practice 8.1 – Set standards for trained and certified personnel
employed by local agencies.
• Effective Practice 8.2 – Career path planning for staff aids in employee
retention.
Finding #9
The technical infrastructure has become increasingly complex
over the last decade, translating into both higher maintenance
costs as well as increased training requirements.
Users are negotiating so many disparate and often proprietary solutions in the command center
(NG9-1-1, Radio Console, CAD, Records, Mapping, Logging, Video) technology must reduce
the complexity in how these solutions integrate and foster collaboration. Next generation
features, such as NG9-1-1, video, converged voice, messaging, data, and video will introduce
multimedia to current workflows. It is expected that the NG9-1-1 functional systems and
networks will be directly managed by a wider set of organizations and vendors than is the case
today, heightening the practical need to further concentrate the planning and operations
management for non-PSAP functions at regional and higher level points. The primary issue is to
avoid local, uncoordinated migration and cost impacts. As part of a national emergency
communications process the objective of NG9-1-1 is to form a seamless state and national 9-1-1
capability. Given the knowledge base requirements to accomplish this not trivial, it seems
advisable to continue to concentrate management of responsibilities at regional or higher levels.
Page 30The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
• Effective Practice 9.1 – Technology must reduce the complexity in how
solutions integrate and interface to the public safety operator.
• Effective Practice 9.2 – Integrated command and control through a
standardized / common technology platform can reduce the cost of ownership,
maintenance, training, and operational efficiencies.
• Effective Practice 9.3– It is not practical to attempt the migration to NG9-1-1
systems on less than a major metropolitan area, regional (multi-County), state, ,
or even multi-state basis, as applicable, due to economic and overall system and
operational management considerations.
Finding #10
Interoperating across technologies is critical.
Using a common technology platform approach in developing public safety applications and
building on a standards-based technology enables common user experiences across the operator
positions with meaningful interactions across the applications. Consolidation of radio systems
can significantly increase communications interoperability by placing first responders on the
same mission critical wireless system. A key enabler for interoperability are recent trends
towards regional, multi-jurisdictional and multi-disciplinary radio systems that can meet the
needs of city, county and local users while improving day-to-day mission effectiveness and
incident response. These consolidated public safety radio networks offer a high degree of
interoperability within their geographic coverage areas and can be linked with other networks
through gateways.
• Effective Practice 10.1 – Standards-based technology enables common user
experiences across the operator positions with meaningful interactions across
the applications.
• Effective Practice 10.2 – Recent trends towards regional, multi-jurisdictional
and multi-disciplinary approaches improve day-to-day mission effectiveness and
incident response.
Finding #11
Shared, standards based systems lead to technical, operational,
and financial advantages.
Much of the communications equipment used by emergency responders is being upgraded to the
Project 25 (P25) suite of standards-based digital equipment. The DHS Nationwide Summary of
Communications Plans suggests shared radio systems provide the optimal level of
interoperability. Shared radio systems support multiple Federal, State, local, and tribal agencies,
and consolidate the communications of multiple agencies, leading to technical, operational, and
financial advantages gained by combining multiple agencies onto a common shared radio
system. Standards based public safety wireless communications systems are becoming
increasingly important for grant funding. “All new digital voice systems must be compliant with
Page 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
the Project 25 (P25) suite of standards…absent compelling reasons, P25 equipment will be
required for Land Mobile Radio (LMR) systems to which the standards apply.”11
• Effective Practice 11.1 – Much of the communications equipment used by
emergency responders is being upgraded to the Project 25 (P25) suite of
standards based digital equipment.
• Effective Practice 11.2 – Shared radio systems provide the optimal level of
interoperability.
• Effective Practice 11.3 – Standards based public safety wireless
communications systems are becoming increasingly important for grant
funding.
Finding #12
The traditional revenue streams to fund capabilities are not
keeping pace with the costs to refresh and maintain technology.
The most common funding source for 9-1-1 systems is through an assessment or a surcharge fee
on telephone service. This funding mechanism dates back to the late 1970s early 1980’s and was
based upon wireline telephone tariff rates. As technology has evolved consumers have migrated
from traditional wireline services to new communications services. Wireless, prepaid wireless
service offerings and to Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) are typically not addressed within
original legislative authority of 9-1-1 fee assessment. Typically, PSAPs are self-funded and
provide 9-1-1 services to their citizens without having to turn to local, state or federal
governments for the appropriation of funds. That history of self-sufficiency is becoming more
and more difficult to sustain in the light of regulatory trends, declining wireline usage and
rapidly emerging technology. If public safety is not able to develop new and sustainable sources
of funding, the existing revenue base will continue to erode.
• Effective Practice 12.1 – Developing a sustainable funding mechanism that is
separate from the normal appropriation mechanism is needed.
• Effective Practice 12.2 – A state by state review of enabling legislation is
required to update the policies and regulatory environment to keep pace with
new technology.
• Effective Practice 12.3 – A review of current fiscal regulations and practices is
required to assure that public safety has the necessary control over potential
funding sources.
11 FY 2010 SAFECOM Recommended Guidance for Federal Grant Programs
Page 32The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Finding #13
Successful implementation of technology is supported by a secure
governance structure is highly dependent on effective operational
procedures and consistent training of practitioners.
Technology is a critical element in advancing interoperability, but it is not the sole element.
Technology may be a big hurdle to consolidation but experience has shown that governance and
political issues are harder to solve. Consolidation is a complex, multi-dimensional issue that
involves a technological, strategic, tactical, and cultural change. There is never a “silver bullet”
solution in the form of any piece of innovative voice or data equipment.
• Effective Practice 13.1 – Technology may be a big hurdle to consolidation but
experience has shown that governance and political issues are harder to solve.
• Effective Practice 13.2 – A monthly survey of the participating agencies is used
to ensure that performance meets expectations.
• Effective Practice 13.3 – Metrics, such as average time to answer, is tracked
regularly to ensure high performance.
Finding #14
SOPs must be developed reviewed and vetted by operations
personnel prior to consolidation to ensure they are consistent.
Communication center and customer standard operating procedures (SOPs) may conflict and
cause confusion for command and field personnel. It is advised that all administrative and
operational SOPs be drafted by management with input from field operational personnel. SOPs
should be reviewed and approved by police and fire operational boards then the governance
board. Inconsistent SOPs across disciplines lead to training challenges and increased chance of
errors during times of high call volume or disaster periods.
• Effective Practice 14.1 – Administrative and operational SOPs be drafted by
management with input from field operational personnel.
• Effective Practice 14.2 – SOPs should be reviewed and approved by operational
boards then the governance board.
Finding #15
Uniform training is required to ensure agencies coordinate
training personnel, standards, policies, procedures and systems.
A training blueprint having clear expectations should be determined prior to consolidation. A
heavy burden is placed on the center operation if the trainers are not trained in all disciplines.
The unified training concept improves efficiency by eliminating the need to transfer calls to other
call takers with the require skill set. Centers will see an overall improvement in operational
efficiency, specifically in staffing, utilization of overtime, call handling performance, and
Page 33The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
morale. Whether personnel are crossed trained in all positions i.e. Call Taker, Police Radio
Dispatcher, Fire & EMS Radio Dispatcher, and Teletype Services or training is limited to
specific services, the appointing authority should be committed to insuring that training meets or
exceeds recognized industry standards.
• Effective Practice 15.1 – A training blueprint should be determined and have
clear expectations prior to consolidation.
• Effective Practice 15.2 – The unified training concept improves operational
efficiency, specifically in staffing, utilization of overtime, call handling
performance, and morale.
• Effective Practice 15.3 – All personnel entrusted with the responsibility for
answering 9-1-1 calls should at a minimum complete the APCO Basic
Telecommunicator Training Program. If call takers are also responsible for
processing calls for medical assistance they should be required to be trained in
an approved Emergency Medical Dispatch Training Program. And all call
takers should receive formal training that meets the ANSI national standard for
processing calls reporting missing and abducted children.
Finding #16
Training among the consolidated agencies should be
supplemented with exercises that provide reinforcement and
practical firsthand experience in handling disasters and other
These exercises not only reinforce training but will provide extremely valuable lessons that will
improve performance and efficiency during unanticipated catastrophic events. New personnel do
not have the luxury of learning from their mistakes, so all personnel must receive sufficient
supervised training to insure that learning has occurred and that they have been responsibly
prepared to perform their assignments.
• Effective Practice 16.1 – Exercises not only reinforces training but provide
extremely valuable lessons that improve performance and efficiency during
unanticipated catastrophic events.
Page 34The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Table 2 – Summary – Findings and Effective Practices
Finding #1 - Successful consolidations require that a trusted and secure governance structure be established, a champion must lead
the project and the political leadership must be in place to support the effort.
Effective Practice 1.1 - Consolidation efforts cannot begin until the political ‘will’ exists to see the process through to completion.
Effective Practice 1.2 - Successful consolidations usually have one trait in common, a well-respected champion to spearhead the process
from beginning to end.
Finding #2 - Securing “agency buy-in” was the next biggest challenge.
Effective Practice 2.1 - All participants, regardless of size, have a sense of equal status in both governance and service delivery.
Effective Practice 2.2 - Communicate honestly, meet to resolve issues often, anticipate turf battles and unforeseen problems, allow for
contingencies, and treat all stakeholders equally.
Finding #3 - Legislation may be necessary to create a sustainable funding mechanism or codify relationships between the parties.
Effective Practice 3.1 - More often than not, legislation was required to establish a sustainable funding mechanism and in some cases
define structure.
Effective Practice 3.2 - In each case, an education campaign for all stakeholders and the public was necessary to gain approval of the
legislation.
Finding #4 - Formalize the arrangement through some sort of legal agreement and to establish strong and clear membership
structures.
Effective Practice 4.1 – Agreements must be clear, well defined, and should define major responsibilities, expectations and dispute
resolution procedures.
Effective Practice 4.2 - Whatever governance structure is agreed upon, it is essential that an individual is appointed or hired who is
responsible for executing according to the policies and direction given by the Board.
Effective Practice 4.3 - A consolidation that provides the supporting functions to its members has many benefits and can easily be
expanded to a complete consolidation as needed.
Effective Practice 4.4 - Emergency communication regions should be aligned with other governance regions, e.g. EMS, Fire, Public
Health, for maximum efficiencies in governance.
Finding #5 - Personnel issues are most difficult and troubling in any consolidation and require a great deal of thought at the policy
level early on.
Effective Practice 5.1 – Employees at all levels affected by the consolidation should be advised well in advance how the consolidation
will impact their income and benefits.
Page 35The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Effective Practice 5.2 – Personnel policy and structure should be created at the beginning and codified in official agreements.
Effective Practice 5.3 – Personnel cannot be effectively managed by a committee so one entity needs to step up and assume this role for
the consolidation.
Finding #6 - Well defined communication channels among stakeholders and the governing body is critical to successful
consolidation.
Effective Practice 6.1 – Stakeholder communication can be facilitated through board members who represent stakeholder groups.
Effective Practice 6.2 –Mandated meetings for stakeholder groups or user group meetings are necessary to keep staff informed.
Effective Practice 6.3 –Communications tools are used to update stakeholders including policy-level officials.
Effective Practice 6.4 – Open communications and frequent discussions to identify and address issues of concern.
Finding #7 - Consolidation can produce long term cost efficiencies by reducing operations and technology duplication.
Effective Practice 7.1 – Having an emphasis on improving service with cost saving as a result was a much more realistic goal than
placing the emphasis on cost savings and hoping for service improvements as a result.
Effective Practice 7.2 – The benefit of technology consolidation is the shared infrastructure that improves quality of service and
interoperability enabling collaboration between different agencies during an incident.
Effective Practice 7.3 –Stakeholders define what is equitable for their particular type of consolidation and that the established funding
mechanism or cost allocation structure be sustainable.
Effective Practice 7.4 – Incentivizing consolidation will bring more benefit and eliminate more challenges than mandating a
consolidation. Rather than just providing incentive for countywide consolidation, there should be incentives for multicounty/ state
consolidations.
Effective Practice 7.5 – Capital costs should be planned and budgeted for by the stakeholders and based on an equitable formula that is
codified in the organizations governing agreements
Finding #8 - Consolidation results in better trained and more focused personnel, increasing the level of public safety.
Effective Practice 8.1 – Set standards for trained and certified personnel employed by local agencies.
Effective Practice 8.2 – Career path planning for staff aids in employee retention.
Finding #9 - The technical infrastructure has become increasingly complex over the last decade, translating into both higher
maintenance costs as well as increased training requirements.
Effective Practice 9.1 – Technology must reduce the complexity in how solutions integrate and interface to the public safety operator.
Effective Practice 9.2 – Integrated command and control through a standardized / common technology platform can reduce the cost of
ownership, maintenance, training, and operational efficiencies.
Effective Practice 9.3– It is not practical to attempt the migration to NG9-1-1 systems on less than a major metropolitan area, regional
(multi-County), state, , or even multi-state basis, as applicable, due to economic and overall system and operational management
considerations.
Page 36The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Finding #10 - Interoperating across technologies is critical.
Effective Practice 10.1 – Standards-based technology enables common user experiences across the operator positions with meaningful
interactions across the applications.
Effective Practice 10.2 – Recent trends towards regional, multi-jurisdictional and multi-disciplinary approaches improve day-to-day
mission effectiveness and incident response.
Finding #11 - Shared, standards based systems lead to technical, operational, and financial advantages.
Effective Practice 11.1 – Much of the communications equipment used by emergency responders is being upgraded to the Project 25
(P25) suite of standards based digital equipment.
Effective Practice 11.2 – Shared radio systems provide the optimal level of interoperability.
Effective Practice 11.3 – Standards based public safety wireless communications systems are becoming increasingly important for grant
funding.
Finding #12 - The traditional revenue streams to fund capabilities are not keeping pace with the costs to refresh and maintain
technology
Effective Practice 12.1 – Developing a sustainable funding mechanism that is separate from the normal appropriation mechanism is
needed.
Effective Practice 12.2 – A state by state review of enabling legislation is required to update the policies and regulatory environment to
keep pace with new technology.
Effective Practice 12.3 – A review of current fiscal regulations and practices is required to assure that public safety has the necessary
control over potential funding sources.
Finding #13 - Successful implementation of technology is supported by a secure governance structure is highly dependent on
effective operational procedures and consistent training of practitioners.
Effective Practice 13.1 – Technology may be a big hurdle to consolidation but experience has shown that governance and political
issues are harder to solve.
Effective Practice 13.2 – A monthly survey of the participating agencies is used to ensure that performance meets expectations.
Effective Practice 13.3 – Metrics, such as average time to answer, are tracked regularly to ensure high performance.
Finding #14 - SOPs must be developed reviewed and vetted by operations personnel prior to consolidation to ensure they are
consistent.
Effective Practice 14.1 – Administrative and operational SOPs be drafted by management with input from field operational personnel.
Effective Practice 14.2 – SOPs should be reviewed and approved by police and fire operational boards then the governance board.
Page 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Finding #15 - Uniform training is required to ensure agencies coordinate training personnel, standards, policies, procedures and
systems.
Effective Practice 15.1 – A training blueprint should be determined and have clear expectations prior to consolidation.
Effective Practice 15.2 – The unified training concept improves operational efficiency, specifically in staffing, utilization of overtime,
call handling performance, and morale.
Effective Practice 15.3 – All personnel entrusted with the responsibility for answering 9-1-1 calls should at a minimum complete the
APCO Basic Telecommunicator Training Program. If call takers are also responsible for processing calls for medical assistance they
should be required to be trained in an approved Emergency Medical Dispatch Training Program. And all call takers should receive
formal training that meets the ANSI national standard for processing calls reporting missing and abducted children.
Finding #16 - Training among the consolidated agencies should be supplemented with exercises that provide reinforcement and
practical firsthand experience in handling disasters and other situations that are not routine.
Effective Practice 16.1 – Exercises not only reinforce training but will provide extremely valuable lessons that will improve
performance and efficiency during unanticipated catastrophic events.
Page 38The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
4.6 Recommendations
1. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) should consider promoting the
development of new funding strategies to assist public safety agencies in their
consolidation efforts. Absent new and sustainable funding solutions, local
government leaders will be truly challenged to discard legacy systems and their
investments via local tax dollars, in favor of new and more capable technology.
Some funding approaches for consideration:
a. The FCC should work in collaboration with the relevant federal agencies,
specifically the Department of Homeland Security and Department of
Transportation, to determine if public safety infrastructure projects can be
eligible under any new or existing public infrastructure funding programs
being considered, such as Critical Infrastructure / Key Resources (CI/KR),
National Infrastructure Bank, and other infrastructure investment programs as
applicable. Statewide and large county/municipal public safety systems
should be considered “infrastructure projects” in the same way that
transportation and other public works projects are considered infrastructure.
For example, public safety radio systems are sometimes not thought of as
“infrastructure” in the traditional sense because only the handheld radios are
visible to the average person, but the tower sites that constitute the backbone
of such systems are infrastructure just as much as a road, bridge or building.
A large public safety radio system can involve construction of tens or even
hundreds of sites requiring the employment of engineers, technicians, general
contractors, concrete crews, electrical crews, crane crews, and tower crews,
among others.
b. The FCC should issue a public notice to receive comments on the funding
status of Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) to fully understand the
extent that 9-1-1 funds are used for purposes other than 9-1-1 as noted in
National Broadband Plan (NBP) recommendation 16.14 and to understand the
impact of IP-based NG9-1-1 services will place on PSAPs as noted in NBP
recommendation 16.15. PSAPs are dependent on funding streams based on
state legislation, although the technology and training requirements have
changed drastically in 9-1-1 centers over the last 20 years, most of the funding
legislation has not kept pace. Funding legislation has been altered in many
states by adding provisions for cellular surcharges and, in some cases, how 9-
1-1 monies can be spent. These changes in the law; however, have rarely
taken into account the additional burdens being placed on 9-1-1 centers
throughout the United States. These comments could be instrumental in
assuring that PSAPs are funded adequately because they are truly the first line
of defense in any emergency.
Page 39The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation
c. As a complementary component to existing grant programs, the FCC should
also consider creating or recommending a revolving loan fund for public
safety system consolidation efforts. As Congress is considering legislation
that would use spectrum auction revenues to fund a grant program for building
out and maintaining a nationwide public safety broadband network, a loan
program could also provide the flexibility for the federal government to make
loans through a variety of loan structures available depending on what works
best for a particular state or local governmental entity.
d. The FCC should work with federal agencies and explore developing grant
guidance that creates incentives for consolidation efforts. In addition, many
projects are partially funded with federal grants with a requirement for
matching funds. Economic conditions make it increasingly difficult for state
and local governments to meet requirements contained in federal government
grant guidance policies. In conjunction with those efforts a short term
stimulus program should be considered to reduce or relieve public safety
consolidation projects from the grant matching requirements.
2. The FCC should consider the development of concepts of operation and
requirements, technical and operational standards (human factors, training) to
provide a roadmap for public safety agencies as they migrate to next generation
solutions. New technology will enable consolidation, in the future, it will be
necessary to aggregate voice, data, and video information to optimize real-time
decision making. Potentially this can be considered under recommendation 16.14 of
the National Broadband Plan.
3. The FCC should consider the establishment of a repository of effective practices
with respect to Policies, Practices, Procedures, Technology, Training and Exercises
to guide consolidation efforts from lessons learned. A longer term plan is required
for gathering data on consolidated public safety operations in order to obtain a
sufficient/larger sampling to draw more substantiated conclusions on consolidation
and the accompanying best practices.
4. The FCC should collaborate with the Department of Homeland Security as it updates
the National Emergency Communications Plan (NECP). The FCC and its
supporting advisory committees can be used as a source for feedback to include new
types of technology, to review gaps in the current plan, and to create an updated
integrated emergency communications planning strategy.
5. The FCC should issue guidance to agencies contemplating consolidation to
undertake a comprehensive study. The consolidation process poses numerous
challenges from operational, governance, funding and technical perspectives, the
study should include:
Page 40The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation
a. Benchmarks current services by examining a wide variety of issues. These
issues include mission critical communications capability, staffing, call
processing and dispatching, budget, technology, political environment, and
facilities.
b. Determines if consolidation makes sense from a service level, political,
technological, and financial perspective.
c. Makes recommendations for consolidation models, governance, funding,
staffing, technology and facilities.
6. The FCC should consider the reevaluation of CSRIC Working Group #1A findings,
effective practices and recommendations as other working groups complete their
areas of study.
7. The FCC should consider establishing a future work group to consider the findings
of CSRIC Working Group #1A in addressing longer term transition to networks that
are owned or operated, at least in part, by non-public safety entities. This would
advance the findings of the current work group that focused on the transition to
consolidated systems that continue to be operated and controlled by public safety
entities.
5 Summary
The CSRIC group #1A recognized early on that the very large national aspects of the
consolidation process and the diversity of implementation strategies made the compilation of
best practices very challenging. In fact, the level of resources to further advance the maturity of
the consolidation best practices analysis is significant and exceeded the capacity of this study.
However, the working group captured important findings and relevant effective practices that led
to several specific recommendations. While the initial focus of the work group was on the
transition to consolidated systems that continue to be operated and controlled by public safety
entities, a future work group should consider the findings of this group in addressing longer term
transition to networks that are owned or operated, at least in part, by non-public safety entities.
Page 41The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
6 Appendices & References
Page 42The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 1 – Interview Questionnaire
6.1 Appendix 1 - Interview Questionnaire
a. Describe the type of consolidation:
i. PSAP
1. Facility only (co-location)
2. Operations and Facility Consolidation
3. Technology/Infrastructure/Virtual Consolidation
4. Other (please describe)
ii. Communications (radio, data)
iii. Technology
iv. Operations
b. How long has organization been consolidated?
c. Describe the demographics of the consolidation
i. Population served
ii. Geographical area
iii. Number of Agencies
iv. Types of Agencies
v. Description of locale
1. Urban
2. Rural
3. Both
4. Other
d. How was the consolidation effort initiated?
i. What were the drivers?
ii. Who were the champions?
iii. How was the vision shared?
iv. What was the political or fiscal motivation?
e. Describe the initial goals of this consolidation, e.g. reduce costs, improve efficiency, etc.
f. What threats to consolidation arose at the time of consolidation or in the planning stages?
g. Please elaborate on any Legislative changes that were needed to allow for consolidation?
h. How was governance established? Please describe the governance model used in this
consolidation.
i. How is(are) the governance/oversight committee(s) structured
i. By political subdivision – x number of representatives per political subdivision
ii. By constituent groups – e.g. x number of representatives for law agencies, x for fire
agencies, x for citizens, etc.
iii. Some other method – please describe
j. Was the consolidation participation mandated or one where you had to entice folks to
participate?
i. Describe incentives if any
ii. Describe the requirements if any
k. How are elected officials involved either in the finalized consolidation or in the process to
establish the consolidated entity?
l. Are user agencies/stakeholders involved?
i. Describe the level of involvement
ii. Describe the decision making process and involvement of stakeholder groups
m. How are decisions made?
i. Weighted voting
Page 43The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 1 – Interview Questionnaire
ii. Consensus
iii. Other? Please provide detail.
n. How were conflicts in standards (service levels, performance expectations, training
requirements, compensation, benefits, etc.) resolved
i. All participants accepted minimum standard
ii. Some arrangement where organizations were able to maintain their own standards.
iii. All participants compromised between highest and lowest standards
iv. All participants accepted highest standard
v. Other? Please elaborate.
o. Please describe the Management & Oversight function of this consolidation.
p. How are Administrative Services for the consolidated agency handled?
q. Please describe how Fiduciary oversight/responsibility is handled? How do you handle
Operational Cost Distribution?
r. How do you handle Capital Cost Distribution?
s. How is Funding structured? Specifically, describe the formula, if any that is used to allocate
costs between the various participants.
t. How is communications between the consolidated agency and the stakeholder groups
handled?
u. Please describe the compensation program for the consolidated agency.
i. Pay for Performance or Merit Pay Systems?
ii. Traditional
iii. Other? Please elaborate.
v. Was it necessary to integrate various work groups in the consolidation process and how was
this handled?
i. Collective Bargaining Issues? Unions vs. Non-Union environment?
ii. Employee benefits
iii. Work rules & practices
iv. Seniority systems
v. Retirement systems
vi. Other? Please describe.
w. How has consolidation impacted operations?
x. What are the strengths/benefits of consolidation? What are the challenges?
y. What worked and what would you do differently?
z. For each of the initial goals listed under question e. describe how well that goal was met.
aa. Is there the potential to expand the scope of this consolidation further? If so, please
describe.
bb. Please describe if there are currently any threats to continuing this consolidation?
cc. Based on your experience, please provide three effective practices that make for a successful
consolidation:
i. ____________________________________________________
ii. ____________________________________________________
iii. ____________________________________________________
Page 44The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
6.2 Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
Describe the type Operations and Operations and Operations and Operations Operations Operations Operations and Operations and Operations and
of consolidation: Facility Facility Facility and Facility and Facility and Facility Facility Facility Facility
PSAP, Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology
Communications Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation Consolidation
Technology PSAP PSAP PSAP Communicati PSAP Communicati PSAP PSAP PSAP
Operations Techn ons, PSAP ons, PSAP
ology/Infrastru
cture/Virtual
Consolidation
Yes
How long has Since 1981 Since 2007 Cutover its Consolidation The Consolidation November of 1993 In 1984
organization (although it first PSAPs in began in Metropolitan began in 1991 1998 consolidated
been had been 1990. 1994. 9-1-1 Board with the Walla
consolidated? discussed since was formed in Walla Fire
1973) 1982. Department
County Fire
District 4. The
remaining
agencies joined
between 1994
and 1997
Describe the Population Population: Population Population Population The entire Ten PSAPs Serves the Population
demographics of served 2009 – 388,000 served: served 21,800 served: state of and entire served
the consolidation 217,483 Area Covered: Approximately Geographical approx. 2.7 Michigan, approximately population of approximately
Geographical 587 Square 650,000 area 925 sq million in a 9 population 10 30 Limited Washington, 58,000
area 26 square miles. One Geographical miles county million, area Secondary 6.6 million Geographical
miles third urban and area: Number of metropolitan of 57,800 PSAPs people and a area most of
Number of two thirds rural Approximately Agencies 18 area of St. square miles, 621,000 geographic Walla Walla
Agencies 2 population, 950 Square agencies Paul/Minneap range of people and an area of 66.5 County is
Types of including first Miles Number Types of olis. The local demographics area of 9,250 thousand farmland with
Page 45The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
Agencies ring suburbs of of Agencies: Agencies fire, ranges from from dense square miles. square miles. rolling hills and
Police and St. 11 PSAPS, 34 EMS, law highly urban urban to rural There are 64 valleys Number
Fire/EMS Paul/Minneapo Cities, 1 enforcement, to very rural. and PSAP’s of Agencies 17
Description of lis. County Types tribal wilderness. serving police, Types of
locale Urban of Agencies: Description of fire/rescue and Agencies law
All PSAPs are locale rural EMS agencies, enforcement,
consolidated in both urban and fire, EMS
that they rural providers;
provide all communities. Public Works,
Dispatch and coroner’s
services for offices
Police, Fire, WESCOM
EMS Both primarily serves
Rural and a rural
Suburban population.
How was the County Board/ 12 local The Denco WA State Key leaders Twice in the In 1994 the State leaders When 9-1-1
consolidation Police Chief/ governments Area 9-1-1 mandate for 9- advocated for 1980’s the Vermont recognized that services were
effort initiated? Fire Chief partnered District 1-1 services. a single entity Michigan Legislature it would be implemented in
Employees together with (Denco) is a 9-1-1 service to manage 9- State Police established the impractical to Walla Walla,
were told they the desire to special purpose did not exist 1-1 services, (MSP) Vermont build a Next discussions
were being provide emergency in the county deal with contracted Enhanced 9-1- Gen 9-1-1 were held to see
combined efficient communication prior to this utilities, and feasibility 1 Board system on if public dollars
Fiscal services and district created effort. It was accept studies to anything less could be saved
motivation to save taxpayers by a voter also tied to responsibility evaluate two than a by combining
reduce Fire money. They referendum in funding for the quality basic dispatch statewide dispatch
Department implemented a 1987. County of the 9-1-1 configurations basis, PSAP’s services for the
costs plan that had Commissioner database. . recognized the police and fire
been discussed s were the They Consolidation need to departments.
since 1973 local leaders advocated for was upgrade and The initial
vision shared a board of recommended realize that this combination
Series of Commissioner , and the MSP would best be was the Walla
meetings s from local moved done on a large Walla Fire
counties. forward with area basis, Department and
Page 46The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
the plan in Telecomm Walla Walla
1991. companies Police
wanted to deal Department,
with one and soon
infrastructure afterwards the
and lawmakers County Fire
sought a Districts all
uniform level joined into a
of service. All single dispatch
of these factors operation which
combined to was
make it easy to administered by
form the the Walla Walla
current system. Police
Department.
This eliminated
the need for
every agency to
have separate
dispatch
personnel and
equipment. It
was a money
saving approach
Describe the Improve Initial goals Desirous of Offer 9-1-1 To streamline Reduce costs, Creating a To install the Reduce
initial goals of efficiencies; included: The consistent service government support single NG9-1-1 personnel and
this provide more need to obtain service levels county-wide and the 9-1-1 operational statewide network and equipment costs
consolidation, staff to handle operational and across the system by services system connect and improve
e.g. reduce costs, calls by cross- economic county and simplifying within MSP, PSAP’s to it at efficiency
improve training all efficiencies, continued local the process need to no degradation
efficiency, etc. employees. address control drove and acting leverage the of service
Fire chief regulatory City and Fire collectively. investment in quality from
wanted to factors, and Department Provide a communicatio the existing
Page 47The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
reduce costs increase Leaders to fiscal agent ns systems, network.
by bringing the interoperability initiate for the EMS need to Secondary: to
firefighters between discussion on program. leverage the move the 9-1-1
back to the agencies and how best to investment in database to an
stations. save money. achieve the E9-1-1 IP compatible
goals without technologies. format without
intervention by loss of
State functionality.
government. A
single, District
Wide user
service fee was
envisioned so
that no local
taxes by
participating
cities and
county would
be necessary or
be a part of the
county or state
appropriation
process thereby
protecting the
funds.
What threats to Pay was a big Several issues Numerous Political No specific Local Privacy The state was a Politics, turf
consolidation issue, some could be threats to issues. threats are agencies were concerns pioneer and wars, and a
arose at the time people perceived as consolidation mentioned. not easily early adopter general
of consolidation resigned. threats. The arose at the The convinced to of NG9-1-1; assortment of
or in the Employees financial time of consolidation join. this led to a whatever could
planning stages? were hired as impact was consolidation did eventually lack of go wrong did.
police or fire tricky, local and during the happen in expertise that
dispatchers government planning three stages. has continued
Page 48The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
and then aid to the cities stages. There First, in 1982, to cause issues.
required to do from the State were local the Metro 9-1- Lack of
both. was politics in the 1 Board was industry
decreasing, selection of established. standards
putting PSAP Second, in added risk to
additional locations, who 1995 the the project.
burdens on the was to be Board
municipalities. appointed to absorbed
The concern the Board, responsibility
for loss of pressure from for EMS
local control the 9-1-1 programming.
also posed Service Finally, in
problems. Provider on 2005 an
Personnel local existing
transition was governance, Metropolitan
the third issue standard Radio Board
that arose. training and (MRB) was
operational worked into
requirements. the board. At
There was also this time, a
pressure to use name change
funds for local occurred:
services not Metropolitan
part of mission. Emergency
This continues Services
to still be a Board
threat today. (MESB)
Please elaborate No data or No legislative The option to All No specific Legislative Established an Statewide 9-1- Local
on any records changes were create a jurisdictions legislative changes were independent 1 was legislative
Legislative available needed. A District was signed on to changes were necessary to board that originally changes
changes that Joint Powers approved by an Interlocal mentioned. establish a would be established by between the city
were needed to Agreement state statute in Agreement Consolidation funding responsible for a popular vote council’s and
allow for (JPA) was 1985. It arose as a model. A operating the as a county
Page 49The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
consolidation? signed between provided a result of State 9-1-1 state’s 9-1-1 referendum commissioners.
the deadline for grassroots board was system from the
jurisdiction, the vote by movement in established by legislature.
and locals and its favor. statute to The statutes
consolidation those not part oversee provided for
began shortly of a “District” funding and statewide
thereafter. by the dispatch assistance to
established issues. counties and
deadline, overall state
September guidance/mana
1987, would gement. The
only have the state was given
option to authorities to
become part of adopt rules
the state plan. appropriate to
Thus far, a successful
Districts have agency.
been successful
since in
keeping
operations,
control and
funds out of
the State
government.
How was No data or A complex Denco has Through The Board is The model is Statute created Counties have The final
governance records governance two(2) At Interlocal composed of based on a nine-member authority to governance
established? available structure was Large City agreement. elected having a board that establish model was
Please describe established, government County single represented the government developed in a
the governance consisting of representatives, Commissioner representative various over their collaborative
model used in three distinct two(2) County s and elected for each constituent PSAP’s. This effort with all
this committees Appointees, City Council county, with groups model varies. participating
consolidation. with one(1) Fire Members who one vote Typically they agencies, and
Page 50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
representatives Chief are directly regardless of have a board resulted in the
from all 12 Association responsible to size. of directors establishment of
Member Representative, the public. Governance is consisting of voting
jurisdictions, and one(1) Seats are generally set elected membership for
including the Non-Voting allotted by up along officials who all of the public
Board of Advisory population. county set the budget safety agencies
Directors Member Board boundaries and who hire and non-voting
(elected (Appointed by leadership is with regional the PSAP membership for
officials), the Largest rotated each dispatch/9-1-1 director. For the non-first
executive Incumbent year. boards. the state responder
committee (city Local Personnel is program public safety
administrators Exchange managed by authority is in agencies. All
and managers) Carrier) the MSP, a state agency members serve
and the policy is to manage the on a board
Operations managed with program, there known as
Committee a committee is an advisory Emergency
(public safety). approach. committee Management
These three with multiple Communication
were formed to constituent s Advisory
address start group Board
up issues. The representation. (EMCAB).
structure
reflects the
desire of
members to
maintain local
decision
making power.
How is(are) the No data or The Board of The only Constituent Elected The One county Structured as a By constituent
governance/overs records Governors political groups. Commissioner committee is law state agency groups – e.g. x
ight committee(s) available provides policy involvement is s and Council arranged by enforcement with a large number of
structured leadership and the board Members sit county. With officer elected advisory group representatives
approval of appointment on the board. each by the composed of for law
Page 51The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
policies related and budget The number of participating membership of interested agencies, x for
to the budget, approval. seats afforded county the Vermont parties fire agencies, x
finance, and There is no bears a direct receiving one State Sheriff's including for citizens, etc.
legal matters. other relationship to vote Association; PSAP’s, There is no
They approve “required” the population regardless of one municipal elected citizen
the operating stakeholder represented. size. The law officials and representation.
budget. involvement. Board MSP has enforcement private Each voting
The Executive leadership eventually officer elected industry member has a
Committee rotates, and all taken the lead by the Chiefs representatives single vote,
provides members have on all of Police . County regardless of
direction and leadership personnel Association of governments agency size or
oversight of opportunities. issues, while Vermont; one are ultimately financial
the DCC’s The MESB the whole official of a responsible for support.
operation. generally committee municipality assuring that 9-
They carry out operates by deals with not currently 1-1 is
the policy consensus, but issues of receiving 9-1- functional,
decisions of each member policy. 1 service; a with state
the Board of has the right firefighter; an assistance.
Governors and to request a emergency
make specific vote. medical
recommendati Voting is services
ons to the weighted by provider; a
board. population. department of
The Operations The Board has public safety
Committee 3 functional representative;
provides groups (9-1-1, and three
advice on Radio and members of
operations and EMS) and the public
procedures each group
which impact has a
daily Technical
operations. Operations
Administrative Committee
Page 52The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
services such (TOC’s).
as fiscal These
management, committees
legal and generally
facilities make
management recommendati
are handled ons to the full
through board.
contracts and
member
agencies
Was the Mandated with People were The option to Entice The board was Participation The state was Participation is It was not
consolidation almost no recruited/entic create a jurisdictions, formed after a was not without mandated, but mandated, but
participation input from line ed but were District was although it grassroots mandated. widespread 9- with costs simply came
mandated or one employees. generally approved by was hard to movement This caused 1-1 service covered by the together as the
where you had to willing to state statute in turn down and arose problems at prior to the state for result of
entice folks to participate. 1985. not participate endorsing it. first because establishment common use officials and
participate? Issues were in the offer of No enticement it became of the board. It network elected
worked out in 9-1-1 service. was necessary to is possible for components legislators
the planning mentioned. convince local municipalities and talking about
process. agencies to to opt-out of reimbursement cost savings.
buy in to the the board, but support for Others joined
consolidation only the components when they
concept. After University of whose costs found out that
time local Vermont has could not be the consolidated
agencies chosen to do covered by dispatch center
realized that so. local worked.
consolidation authorized
was an taxes.
acceptable
trade off and
it became
easier to
Page 53The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
convince
them to join.
How are elected No data or Elected City and Elected County Elected Board Elected The elected
officials involved records officials serve county elected officials were Commissioner officials were members are officials serve parties of each
either in the available on the Board officials are key to the s and City necessary to elected from a on the advisory political
finalized of Governors. involved in the process and Council implemented variety of group. They subdivision
consolidation or governance of each Members sit needed sources. The also introduced were involved
in the process to DENCO in two represented on the MESB. statutory Governor a referendum in that they had
establish the ways. First, their changes so technically to help bring to sign formal
consolidated each jurisdiction. that the appoints the about the agreements
entity? participating consolidation board NG9-1-1 establishing the
jurisdiction could be members, but system. rights and
appoints the funded. they are responsibilities
Board mostly chosen of the parties
representatives by civic and of the
as described groups, communication
above. associations s center and of
Second, the etc. The the funding
annual Governor process.
operating gives
budget must be consideration
approved by to different
both the county Geographic
government regions within
and the VT.
majority of the
participating
cities.
Page 54The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
How are Very little if Decisions are Denco chooses Each agency District wide The MSP The board Ultimately the Each agency
decisions made? any made based on to involve the is a separate decisions are handles hires an State has has
involvement jurisdiction PSAPs in its jurisdiction made by the personnel executive decision representation
user spread out over planning. with board. They decisions. The director who making on the
agencies/stake the three PSAP representation generally committee manages the authority, but governing
holders operating operational by their operate under handles policy day-to-day the advisory board, which is
committees, as decisions are elected consensus, but and other operations of committee known as
described in made at PSAP officials. sometimes decisions. the board. The does vetting to EMCAB.
question I. level, but record votes board reach Concerns are
District-Wide on certain generally consensus on brought before
decisions are issues. meets recommendati the board for
made by the Meeting quarterly. ons. handling, the
Denco Board. minutes are budget is
The Board kept and reviewed and
follows posted or approved by the
Roberts Rules emailed to board, and it
of Order and interested generally works
functions by parties. quite well.
majority vote. Meeting
information is
posted on a
Board
maintained
website.
How were No data or Committees Denco staff Majority rule. Local Because there The state Consensus.
conflicts in records were works with all employees was no mandates few Each agency
standards available established stakeholders to were made widespread standards, by that is a law,
(service levels, during the resolve issues. state system before those that exist fire, or EMS
performance planning It has a PSAP employees. the adoption of are the highest agency that uses
expectations, process to Management This allowed the E9-1-1 achievable. WESCOM as
training work through and a PSAP for board, few PSAP’s its primary
requirements, each User working standardized conflicts arose. traditionally dispatch
compensation, operational group that training and The board share provider has a
Page 55The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
benefits, etc.) issue. This meet every operational started with a information single vote.
resolved resulted in one other month to procedures. clean slate. and Subcommittees
set of discuss and State salaries operational were formed for
operational resolve issues. are generally protocols. law
directives. In addition, on higher and Most PSAP’s enforcement,
Wage and an as needed formerly local have well fire and EMS to
benefit plans basis, Denco employees developed develop single
were staff meets found greater protocols to standardized
developed with other career path assure protocols for
early in the stakeholders to options once acceptable each type of
project to resolve issues. they were levels of service. Each
ensure The only issues made state performance. agency has a bit
personnel that are employees. of leeway for
retention and brought to the specialized
job security. board for needs, but all
There was a consideration general dispatch
minimal loss involve protocols were
of personnel. additional set by
appropriation committee.
of funds or
policy issues.
Please describe The police and The three The statute that All The board is The board is These WESCOM is
the Management fire chiefs each oversight governs Denco participants made up of elected from a functions are managed by the
& Oversight had their committees provides for accepted representative variety of handled by the Walla Walla
function of this expectations have allowed the Board to minimum s from sources that Advisory Police
consolidation. which were local appoint a standard member represent a Committee. In Department,
mandates for jurisdictions to Director of counties. It is geographic addition, the which employs,
ECC maintain a Communicatio broken down and agency is part recruits, trains,
employees. high level of ns (Executive into Technical demographic of a larger and administers
control. The Director) who Operations sampling of state agency all of the
three manages the Committees interested with copious dispatch
committee District and is (TOC’s) that parties. They planning and functions.
structure also given broad oversea its hire an management General
Page 56The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
allows for an powers to three executive oversight oversight is
oversight interpret the operational director to run requirements. provided by the
cycle, with goals of the areas. They day-to-day EMCAB Board.
each Board and deliberate and operations of
committee oversee the initiate actions the system,
responsible function of the and program and meet
checking and operation. activities. quarterly.
balancing the Oversight of
others. the Executive
Director is by
the Board.
How are No data or They are Administrative There is both Members split MSP handles An Executive State General
Administrative records contracted out. services such an administrative personnel Director, and Administrator operational
Services for the available as payroll, “Administrati tasks between issues; the staff of 9, has authority matters are
consolidated benefit ve Board” and them. For larger board handles day to for handled by a
agency handled? administration an example, one handles other day operations. administrative Communication
for Denco “Operations member does issues. items and s Manager;
employees, Board”. The payroll and utilizes the Administrative
budgeting, Admin Board healthcare services of the Secretary; or
accounts oversees fiscal administration parent agency. the Chief of the
receivable and issues, while , another Walla Walla
accounts the Ops Board handles Police
payable are oversees finance, to Department.
handled by operational provide legal Day to day
Denco staff. issues. The counsel, etc. supervision is
Sheriff’s handled by
Office (and three staff
the Sheriff in supervisors.
particular)
was
designated for
day-to-day
oversight of
Page 57The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
the entire
agency and
staff.
Please describe ECC handles The Board of Denco is The Sheriff Initiatives There is no The Board has The total Annually, the
how Fiduciary all its own Directors charged with appoints an proposed by single funding MOU’s with appropriation user fees are
oversight/respon administrative determines the fiduciary agency the TOC’s are model used other agencies is provided by established for
sibility is services. annual oversight and Director who voted on and consistently, to use their the legislature. each agency
handled? How Supervisors operating responsibility is responsible funded by the but in general facilities and Cost based upon a
do you handle and budget. The and owns the for both full MESB. the state personnel for distribution is formula that
Operational Cost dispatchers Executive entire system admin and handles 9-1-1 call- from payment reviews the
Distribution? were Committee as one system. operations capital costs talking. of 9-1-1 costs total calls for
responsible for oversees It does not, in (small rural and all Staffing and or by a set of service by each
it all. direction and any way, county). participants scheduling rules that agency and also
oversight of distribute funds split the decisions are define factors in
the day-to-day to single operational made at the assistance to current budget
operation of jurisdictions. costs roughly local agency counties. needs.
the DCC. Denco receives based on call level. The Contract Agencies that
funds via the volume and/or MOU sets process have a limited
emergency population service level provides usage of the
service fee and area agreements for guidance for system pay a
established by served. staffing. performance flat minimum
resolution of expectations. fee, which is
board of Reporting of also established
managers. The expenditures by the EMCAB
fee is uniform and statistics is Board. These
across the required fees may be
District and monthly with adjusted from
collected and reimbursement time-to-time by
remitted from of expenses the EMCAB
users of linked directly Finance
telecommunica to these Subcommittee
Page 58The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
tion services requests. based upon
by the service current budget
provider. The requirements,
board sets the special needs,
wireline and etc.
voice over
Internet
Protocol
(VoIP) fees by
resolution.
How do you No data or All capital The Admin Capital costs The Board Counties Capital items
handle Capital records costs are Board have largely uses set aside submit annual are brought
Cost available determined by approves the been borne by funds to pay requests for before the
Distribution? the Executive budget. The the State. for capital assistance, EMCAB Board
Director acting expenditures Grants have improvements. they are for review and
on the goals are split been used in reviewed and approval, based
established by among some cases. approved upon current
the Board and participating appropriate to and projected
borne by agencies the agency budget
Denco and are based on a need. allowances.
part of its formula
operating weighting
budget. Each population
year, the and assessed
Denco Area 9- value.
1-1 District
Fiscal Year
Financial Plan,
approved by
participating
jurisdictions,
includes annual
projections of
Page 59The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
anticipated
revenues and
estimated
expenditures.
How is Funding No data or The center gets Denco does not Assets are The MESB All The Board is Funding is Please see
structured? records 8% of its receive any owned by an program is participants %100 funded appropriated above.
Specifically, available funding from funds from its Equipment funded by split the through by the
describe the State 9-1-1 participating Reserve and several means. operational contributions legislature.
formula, if any fees and 92% jurisdictions Replacement Board costs roughly to the State Counties apply
that is used to from member and provides Fund that activities are based on call Universal for
allocate costs fees. The the same level rents the primarily volume and Service Fund, reimbursement
between the member fees of service to all equipment to funded by area served. which is set at of funds.
various are based on a its PSAPs and the agency. assessments to The state %2 of a
participants. three year participating This fund then member handles most subscribers
average of jurisdictions, is used to Counties and capital costs. phone bill.
assigned calls regardless of replace capital Cities. These
for services. It size. equipment. assessments
was designed The funding are calculated
to level out sources for via a
unusually high PACCOM are population
calls for outlined in based formula.
services Article XV of Some of the
resulting from the PACCOM Regional
any single Interlocal Radio
event (such as Agreement. Program is
a major storm). Any balance supported by
of required user fees.
revenue, after Grants are
all other also secured
revenue from a variety
sources are of sources,
exhausted will including
Page 60The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
hereby be from the EMS
called the Regulatory
“Member Board of
Budget” and Minnesota,
will be funded which helps
according to fund the
the terms and Regional EMS
conditions of Program.
this document.
How is No data or Regular Stakeholders Member Cities and The agency The board Normal tools Monthly
communications records communicatio are engaged agencies have Counties are consists of consists of for meetings
between the available n is maintained through regular direct represented on members members of communicatio between the
consolidated through User Group communicatio the board, from the various n are utilized EMCAB Board
agency and the meetings and meetings with n with the which meets stakeholder stakeholder along with and the
stakeholder the DCC the Executive Director. monthly. The groups. There groups. Thus, mandated Communication
groups handled? website. Director and They are Finance power is board meetings for s Manager, with
Monthly appropriate discouraged Committee evenly split. members all special
surveys seek Denco staff. from calling meets as They accomplish stakeholders to meetings as
feedback on Written the dispatch needed and is participate most be present to needed.
DCC services. communication floor. more engaged through an communicatio assure
Monthly with in the budget equal vote on n. The board common
reports are stakeholders is process. The the governing staff also knowledge
distributed to handled via TOC’s meet board. directly level and
committee Email and monthly. communicates adequate inter-
members, staff, more formal Interested with the stakeholder
and other Written members of PSAP’s on a interaction.
interested Correspondenc the public are day to day and
parties. The e. In addition, kept up to date quarterly basis.
DCC also two through
tracks Newsletters (a emails and
comments and quarterly postings on
concerns publication the MESB’s
Page 61The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
through an targeted to website
inquiry system. governing (www.mn-
Ongoing bodies and mesb.gov)
communicatio targeted bi-
n is maintained monthly
through newsletter for
newsletters and Telecommunic
electronic ators.
updates.
Please describe Poorly – was Compensation Traditional – Compensation As Because of the The dispatchers
the communicated and benefit Union agency is based on a consolidation collaborative are paid based
compensation as a mandate plans were Merit happens local model upon the
program for the merged as Compensation employees (MOU’s) there established pay
consolidated consolidation Plan designed have been is no need to protocols for
agency. happened. Any to reward high made state consider the City of
downsizing quality employees. compensation Walla Walla.
happened by performance. This has and benefits. In the past it has
normal Salary ranges benefited been based
attrition, this are adjusted labor as state upon a step
lack of layoffs annually and compensation system, the City
helped sway reflect market packages are has recently
employees to trends in generally transferred into
accept the new similar more a market based
compensation technical and attractive than compensation
and benefit admin local ones. approach.
package. positions in This has
the helped reduce
government bargaining
and private unit issues.
sector. Benefit
compensation
is
administered
Page 62The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
by one of the
participating
counties,
Payroll is
handled by
another
participating
county etc.
this allows
MESB to
remain lean
and focused
and eliminates
the need for
each county to
have duplicate
administrative
functions.
Was it necessary Consolidation Yes, before Agencies 3 work groups Merging of The Not The Local
to integrate was completed consolidation other than law were brought personnel was decentralized particularly, Bargaining Unit
various work with no pay there were 4 enforcement together under one of the nature of the local PSAP’s was advised of
groups in the change for separate unions were all this biggest issues consolidation operated each change as
consolidation employees. and 5 human volunteer at consolidation with results in some relatively it developed
process and how Within a few resources the time, (9-1-1, radio, consolidation. problems with independently, and agreed to
was this years services. These including and EMS). No When there is competency but defer to the the changes as it
handled? dispatchers were dispatch and major a regional and training Advisory occurred. We
were consolidated telephone problems consolidation between group for did not
reclassified to into 1 human services. arose during all dispatch different funding and experience any
earn more pay. resource Those consolidation and call- agencies. This larger policy specific labor
service and 1 volunteers and the taking staff has required matters. issues during
union. This were replaced merger has become state vigilance. This the
was planned with paid allowed a employees. may also affect consolidation
early, and staff Sheriff’s broader and This will career process.
Page 63The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
loss was kept Office staff. more thorough generally advancement
to a minimum. analysis of result in some opportunities
All 62 issues positions and call-taker
employees impacting the being retention.
were offered MESB and all eliminated
employment, 3 groups. because of
and staff duplication.
reduction has This and other
happened only issues have
through normal not been
attrition. Staff insurmountabl
had a full year e.
to transition
and train with
their new co-
workers before
the
consolidation
was
completely
operational.
How has No data or Consolidation The Denco Increased The original Impact has It is difficult to Consolidation Centralized
consolidation records has area workload for goals of the been positive say because 9- has dispatch has
impacted available streamlined consolidated what was MRB, EMS on staff. 1-1 service complicated allowed for cost
operations? operation and services model Sheriff’s and Metro 9- Professionalis was mostly the state savings both in
saved money. has provided a Office 1-1 were m is up as unavailable program, but equipment and
Service quality consistent level dispatch staff. sustained staff is prior to the permitted the personnel, and
has increased, of service Change in through the presented consolidation. carriers to has resulted in a
and response across the administrative formation of with greater However, better focus better trained
times have district that approach. the MESB, career benefits are staff on 9-1-1 and more
decreased. does not suffer and some options. obvious. issues while focused staff
from a “lot” of benefits were Standardized freeing the that is able to
political seen. The training and locals from the handle the
Page 64The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
pressure. It focus was operations efforts needs of all
also provides a broadened to procedures necessary to local agencies
predicted include 9-1-1 have resulted manage the and at levels
stream of call, EMS in better network. that increase
revenue to response and constituent public safety
fund services Public Safety service. and services to
that is absent communicatio the community.
local budgeting ns. Technical
constraints. Operations
Committees
(TOC) for 9-
1-1, Radio,
and EMS
provide
venues for the
JPA member
experts to
compare,
discuss, and
solve
problems.
What are the Over 30 years Strengths: The recognized Dependable The MESB Consolidation Strengths: Has Strengths: The primary
strengths/benefit the service Decreased strengths of 24/7 has helped has raised made 9-1-1 better challenges to
s of delivery has costs, this type of operation. streamline and professionalis possible, operations consolidation
consolidation? definitely improved consolidation The challenge simplify the 9- m and provides with greater relate to basic
What are the improved but efficiency. are the is trying to 1-1, EMS, and customer adequate level of human nature
challenges? it was a rough legislative make Public Safety service levels resources for redundancy and a fear of
transition. statute that everyone oversight and local Vermont to be and diversity both loss of
provides local happy, while process. agencies have a leader in 9-1- while keeping control and
funding and recognizing Funding been able to 1 costs under decrease in
local control that not continues to access implementatio control. responsibility.
governed by a everyone is be a technology n. Weakness: Weakness: Once these
local board going to be challenge. that they lack of complication challenges can
Page 65The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
appointed by happy with could not enforcement of state be effectively
local the manner in afford provisions in program. met, the
jurisdictions. which service otherwise. the statutes. benefits quickly
is provided – outweigh the
particularly at negative aspects
the outset of by allowing for
the more cost
consolidation. effective
staffing and
equipping and
training of
emergency call
receiving
personnel.
What worked The strengths Worked: The standard The regional Consolidation Following Staff is better Communicate
and what would are delivery of Setting out a level of service approach has has been changes: Give focused on 9- honestly,
you do service from clear mission, across the positioned the mostly the E9-1-1 1-1 issues, budget
differently? central proactively District has MESB well positive and board statutory locals are freed realistically,
location, and integrating kept the for the there isn’t a authority to from efforts meet and
cross-trained staff, District free transition to strong sense enforce necessary to resolve issues
personnel. The maintaining from fund Next Gen 9-1- that things reasonable manage often.
challenges dialogue, raiding or 1. The would be service network.
were the Measuring competing formation of done requirements. Operations are
length of time performance. priorities for individual differently. Create policy, better with a
required to limited dollars. boards for 9- rules, and greater level of
train personnel The challenge 1-1 and Radio procedures redundancy
in all is keeping it was that do not and diversity,
functions. that way. beneficial. make costs have
More Expansion to assumptions been
communicatio include two about who controlled. The
n with additional operated the 9- state could
employees counties has 1-1 system, or have put more
been where the incentives for
Page 66The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
successful. system multi-county
resided. consolidations.
Placing a
bright line
distinction
between 9-1-1
and dispatch.
Also, privacy
provisions
were fine at
the time, but
are somewhat
outdated
today.
For each of the Improving All goals were All goals have All goals were All goals have All initial All of the Goals have All the above,
initial goals listed efficiencies met. been met and met. been met; the goals have original goals been met and reduce
under question e. was met by the model model has been met and have been met costs are personnel and
describe how providing a continues to been adapted surpassed and surpassed. controlled. equipment costs
well that goal centralized work well. to add new expectations. and improve
was met. service counties and efficiency.
dispatch. organizational
Providing groups, and
more staff by continues to
cross-training work well.
all employees
is a continuing
effort, cross-
training has
provided
increased, but
still
insufficient,
staff to handle
Page 67The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
the growing
workload. The
Fire
Department
reduced costs
by returning
the firefighters
to the stations
and increasing
the number of
station
personnel on
duty.
Is there the None at this There are no Current state No – there are The There are still Probably not There is great Currently we
potential to time. current statute allows no agencies consolidation many areas since it covers potential for are serving all
expand the scope expansion for adjacent /jurisdictions added two that have not the entire state consolidation but one fire
of this plans, but the jurisdictions to that are not new counties joined in of Vermont, at the local district within
consolidation DCC remains become part of involved. since its consolidation. less one level since the Walla Walla
further? If so, open to a District by inception. It It is likely that municipality. NG9-1-1 County. There
please describe. exploring the joint could consolidation network when are no plans in
addition of 311 resolution. conceivably will continue combined with effect which
to its services. There have expand to as the the VoIP would expand
DCC is also been several include more economy system permits this beyond
open to attempts for jurisdictions. reduces funds local county boarders
exploring the that but it has for these government to at this time.
possibility of never holdout areas. go almost
sharing happened Agencies will anywhere to
equipment because the be more likely collaborate for
with individual to collaborate 9-1-1 call
neighboring jurisdiction did when trying answering and
centers. not want to to upgrade dispatch.
Consolidation relinquish their systems.
Page 68The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
is expected to control.
continue.
Please describe if None at this No obvious Each No threats, Funding There are no There has been There was
there are time. threats. legislative however the continues to current threats some potential for
currently any session there is formula is be an issue to to the overall discussion of fund diversion
threats to the threat of currently maintain the consolidation. merging the by the
continuing this the legislature under status quo. The weak Board with Legislature but
consolidation? changing the consideration The business economy is another State this has been
statute and for change to model is based only making agency. This contained by
taking the include a call on wireline, continued probably developing
entire state based which is consolidation won’t happen; close working
under its element. rapidly more viable. instead talks relationships
control and decreasing. In are in progress with key
therefore the addition, about how to legislators who
funding and Public Safety integrate understand the
control of is facing the dispatch into impact of the
operations. In costs of the 9-1-1 program.
this tight preparing for, model.
economic time, and moving to
it is expected a Next Gen 9-
that there will 1-1 system.
possibly be an
attempt the
next session as
well. There is
also the same
threat of local
government
stacking the
board to use
Page 69The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Metropolitan
Dakota Emergency WESCOM
DENCO area Pacific State of State of State of
Arlington, VA County, Services Walla Walla,
(Dallas, TX) County, WA Michigan Vermont Washington
Minnesota Board WA
(MESB)
funds for their
purpose.
Page 70The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
6.2.1 Summary of Survey Results
Political Drivers
– Consolidation was not mandated. It was the result of local leaders coming together to find cost savings.12
– There has to be concerted marketing effort to get smaller agencies to participate in consolidation, especially when one of the partners is very
large.13
– Consolidation was initiated as a grass roots effort by county officials.14
– This consolidation grew to its present form through the merger of two existing consolidations, one for radios, and one for 9-1-1.15
– Consolidation was created by voter referendum with the sole purpose to provide 9-1-1 communication service.16
– Consolidation started when local officials tried to find a way to meet their goals of providing consistent service without state assistance.17
– There was a state mandate to provide 9-1-1, which did not exist. The mandate required consolidation to ensure funding.18
Legislation
– Legislative changes were needed to address the relationship between the city council and the county commissioners. An independent board
was established.19
– Legislature established and independent board to provide a state-wide 9-1-1 system.20
– Establishment of an independent board addressed the concerns of privacy advocates that no single large agency such as the state police
should have information of every citizen.21
– Legislation provides for statewide governance of backbone elements and county governance of PSAPs. County participation in the statewide
network is mandatory22
12 WESCOM – question j
13 Michigan – 1.1.3
14 MESB – 1.1.2
15 MESB – 1.1.2
16 Denco – 1.1.1
17 Denco – 1.1.2
18 Pacific – question d
19 WESCOM – questions g and h
20 Vermont – 1.1.2
21 Vermont – 1.1.3
Page 71The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– Legislation was required to create the funding mechanism, with a State 9-1-1 Board to provide oversight in an advisory capacity.23
– Legislation created a funding model to support the development of a statewide radio system.24
– A marketing campaign was necessary to get the voters to approve the referendum creating the consolidation.
Voting Structure
– Votes are allocated one per agency, without regard to size. Only responding agencies have votes, there is no citizen representation. 25
– An independent board with nine members representing various constituencies and the public, with one vote per member.26
– Statewide advisory committee with membership based on representation of constituencies. Decisions are made by the state, usually with the
consensus of the advisory committee27
– At the region level, where the actual consolidation occurs, governing boards are created with one vote per agency. One vote per agency is
seen as critical to getting buy in from the smaller agencies that stand to lose the most in way of local control.28
– Votes are based on the population served.29
– Votes are allocated by constituent groups. An industry representative serves in a non-voting, advisory role.30
– No single method of allocating votes is predictive of success – The case studies used for the this report show that many different methods of
allocating votes are in use, and there has been success with all of them. The evidence shows that it is important to match the methods of
allocating votes with the local political environment. In Michigan, each agency participating in a consolidation has a single vote. This
addresses the concerns of the smaller rural agencies that their voice would be drowned out by the Michigan State Police.31 The MESB
consolidation allocates their votes based on the population served by the participating agency.32 This seems to work because the participants
have a longer history of working together and there were fewer concerns about one group taking over. Denco and Vermont allocate votes
based by constituent group, that is there are votes allocated to law enforcement, fire, cites, counties, etc.33,34 In all of these varied forms of
22 Washington – 1.1.5
23 Michigan – 1.1.5
24 MESB – 1.1.3
25 WESCOM – question i
26 Vermont – 1.1.5
27 Washington – 1.1.5
28 Michigan – 1.1.5
29 MESB – 1.1.4
30 Denco – 1.1.4
31 Michigan State Police case study 1.1.3
32 MESB case study 5.1.1.1.4
33 Denco case study 1.1.4
Page 72The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
governance there doesn’t seem to be one form that has a clear advantage over another. All case studies show that the governance model is
place is well accepted.
Agreements
– Local officials had to sign formal agreements outlining roles and responsibilities, including funding.35
– Independent board enters into MOUs with agencies, with the Board providing the system and the agency providing the facilities and call-
takers. Agency must agree to adhere to the standards set by the board.36
– It is essential to establish strong and clear membership agreements that outline each party’s responsibilities early on.37
Conflicts
– Conflicts were handled through subcommittees arriving at consensus.38
– State mandates standards that are typically the highest among conflicting standards.39
– A well-defined structure is crucial for mitigating complaints.40
– Most issues are handled through consensus but any member can request a vote.41
– Conflicts between pre-consolidation standards were resolved by accepting the minimal standard.42
Personnel Issues
– A single agency manages personnel, under oversight of the joint governing board.43
– By involving the bargaining unit early on, labor issues related to consolidation have been avoided.44
– Independent board provides and operates the system, but contracts with local agencies to provide facilities and call takers.45
34 Vermont case study 1.1.5
35 WESCOM – question k
36 Vermont – 1.1.6
37 Michigan – 1.1.12
38 WESCOM – question n
39 Washington – 1.1.5
40 Michigan – 1.1.12
41 MESB – 1.1.4
42 Pacific – question n
43 WESCOM – question o
44 WESCOM – question v
45 Vermont – 1.1.2
Page 73The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– Call-takers work for different agencies but training and certification is provided by the independent board to ensure consistency.46
– By not consolidating call takers into a single agency the career path for call takers is reduced, and this likely affects call taker
professionalism.47
– Personnel cannot be effectively managed by a committee so one entity needs to step up and assume this role for the consolidation.48
– Consolidation is usually going to result in lost positions; this is one of the places where the savings are found. The consolidation groups
needs to face this reality.49
– Moving consolidated staff into the pay/benefit plan of the best group before the consolidation will minimize bargaining unit issues.50
– Issues caused by the need to merge four union contracts were addressed by offering each employee a position working for the consolidation,
and assuring that positions would only be cut through attrition.51
Operations
– An executive director that answers to the independent board is allowed to hire staff and manage system operations.52
– There was no one-size-fits-all model used in this consolidation. In some cases only radios were consolidated, in others, all call-taking and
dispatch functionality was consolidated. Local political considerations drove the model used.53
– Most operational decisions are made by Technical Operation Committees, who make recommendations to the Board.54
– Operation decisions are made at the PSAP level, with district-wide decisions made by the Executive Director who answers to the Board. 55
– Board of director’s are responsible for policy level decisions regarding budget, finance and legal.56
Stakeholder Communications
– Stakeholder communication is facilitated through the board members who represent stakeholder groups.57
46 Vermont – 1.1.2
47 Vermont – 1.1.9
48 Michigan – 1.1.5
49 Michigan – 1.1.9
50 Michigan – 1.1.9
51 Dakota – 1.1.10
52 Vermont – 1.1.6
53 Michigan – 1.1.2
54 MESB – 1.1.4
55 Denco – 1.1.4, 1.1.5
56 Dakota – 1.1.7
57 Vermont – 1.1.8
Page 74The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– There are mandated meetings for stakeholder groups.58
– Giving each participant an equal vote facilitates shareholder communication.59
– A website is used to post meeting information, minutes, planning documents, etc.60
– Stakeholder involvement is limited to Board appointments and budget approval.61
– Bi-monthly user group meeting are used to keep managers and PSAP staff informed and to give them a voice.62
– A quarterly newsletter is used to communicate with policy-level officials, while telecommunicators receive a bi-monthly newsletter.63
– Regular newsletters are used to update stakeholders.64
Problems/Threats
– Had to overcome the fear of a loss of control and decreased responsibility.65
– Agencies need to be convinced that loss of control is offset by the benefits of joining a consolidated system, such as gaining access to
technology they could not afford on their own.66
Operations Best Practices/Lessons Learned
– Communicate honestly67
– Meet to resolve issues often68
– Anticipate turf battles and unforeseen problems. Allow for contingencies.69
– Strong governance allows the 9-1-1 agency to focus on providing and improving service.70
– The 9-1-1 agency needs to have enforcement authority to ensure that regulations related to 9-1-1 are adhered to.71
58 Washington – 1.1.8
59 Michigan – 1.1.8
60 MESB – 1.1.7
61 Denco – 1.1.4
62 Denco, 1.1.4
63 Denco – 1.1.7
64 Dakota – 1.1.9
65 WESCOM – question x
66 Michigan – 1.1.3
67 WESCOM – question cc
68 WESCOM – question cc
69 WESCOM – question e
70 Vermont – 1.1.10
Page 75The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– Many laws/rules created for legacy 9-1-1 system may prove to be inadequate to address NG 9-1-1 systems.72
– Everyone needs to have an equal seat at the table.73
– Emergency communication regions should be aligned with other governance regions, e.g. EMS, Fire, Public Health, for maximum
efficiencies in governance.74
– A consolidation that provides the supporting functions to its members has many benefits and can easily be expanded to a complete
consolidation as needed. It has proven to be scalable both horizontally and vertically.75
– Consolidations pave the way for transition to NG9-1-1.76
– Treat all stakeholders equally.77
– Have a clear mission to keep everyone focused.78
– Clear agreements outlining responsibilities are essential – Though this did not come up in the narrative, a majority of the case studies listed
the need for clear agreements in their lessons learned section.
Economic Drivers
– Consolidation was not mandated. It was the result of local leaders coming together to find cost savings.79
– Consolidation was initiated to provide service to rural areas where no single agency was sufficiently sized to provide 9-1-1 on its own.80
– Budget restrictions were a key driver for this consolidation.81
– Trying to keep pace with technology changes was a driver for consolidation; individual agencies could not afford new technology on their
own.82
– Lack of funding, especially in rural areas provide strong incentives to consolidate.83 Conversely, more available funding tends to hinder
consolidation efforts.84
71 Vermont – 1.1.10
72 Vermont – 1.1.10
73 Michigan – 1.1.12
74 MESB – 1.1.5
75 MESB – 1.1.11
76 MESB – 1.1.12
77 Denco – 1.1.11
78 Dakota – 1.1.13
79 WESCOM – question j
80 Vermont – 1.1.3
81 Michigan – 1.1.1
82 Michigan – 1.1.3
Page 76The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– As local funding decreases, agencies are willing to consolidate more and more of their functionality.85
– Mandated technology changes created a fiscal burden that could only be addressed through consolidation.86
– Attain operational efficiencies.87
– Lack of funding can be leveraged as an opportunity for consolidation – In several instances there is evidence that a difficult fiscal climate is
conducive to efforts to consolidate 9-1-1 and dispatch systems. The report on the State of Michigan consolidation repeatedly mentions that
lack of funds drove agencies, especially those in rural areas to combine their resources through consolidated systems.88
Cost Allocation
– Based on annual call volume, with small users paying a flat fee. All charges are determined by the joint governing board.89
– All funding is provided by payments into the state’s universal service fund. Agencies hosting a PSAP receive a $45k/position/year
contribution. 90
– Funds are appropriated by legislature and counties make annual requests.91
– Statewide 9-1-1 agency provides network and database which are used by county based consolidated 9-1-1 systems.92
– Assessments for operational costs are based on the population served.93
– Consolidation is funded through district-wide user fee. No local taxes are used, which keeps funding out of the normal politicized
appropriation process.94
– Additional fees come from a State 9-1-1 fund.95
– A detailed formula is used to allocate operation costs that rely upon population and grand list.96
83 Michigan – 1.1.3
84 Michigan – 1.1.11
85 Michigan – 1.1.5
86 Dakota – 1.1.1
87 Dakota – 1.1.3
88 Michigan State Police case study 1.1.3
89 WESCOM – question q
90 Vermont – 1.1.7
91 Washington 1.1.7
92 Washington – 1.1.2
93 MESB – 1.1.6
94 Denco – 1.1.2
95 Denco – 1.1.6
96 Pacific – question s
Page 77The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– Local portion of costs are based on three year average of call volume.97
Capital Costs
– Capital costs are approved by the joint governing board, and funded through the normal funding process, with charges based on call
volume.98
– Capital costs are covered with set-aside funds from the annual budgets.99
– Capital costs are borne by the State with operational costs handled by the participants, with costs allocated by call volume or population
served.100
– Grants for capital expenditures are easier to get when a group of agencies applies together.101
– Capital costs are budgeted into the annual operating budget.102
– Initial capital costs for consolidation center were funded by issuing bonds.103
– Capital costs are best covered by the State or other large entity – Each of case study showed that capital costs were covered either by the
State, or by the large group formed by the consolidation. It is clear that a primary advantage of consolidating is the pooling of resources, and
it makes sense to use the large pool to cover capital costs, with some other method of dividing the operating costs among the participants.
Fiscal Results
– There have been savings in both equipment and personnel since consolidation.104
– Partnering with other agencies to collaboratively staff call taker positions has proven to be very cost effective for all parties.105
– Having a statewide backbone has provided for savings at the local level and ensured better integration.106
– There have been significant savings from the first year of the consolidation.107
97 Dakota – 1.1.8
98 WESCOM – question s
99 Vermont – 1.1.7
100 Michigan – 1.1.7
101 Michigan – 1.1.7
102 Denco – 1.1.6
103 Dakota – 1.1.4
104 WESCOM – question w
105 Vermont – 1.1.9
106 Washington – 1.1.6
107 Dakota – 1.1.8
Page 78The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Economic Best Practices/Lessons Learned
– Budget realistically108
– Competition in the telecommunication marketplace is driving down USF contributions making USF an unsustainable funding source over
the long term.109
– A robust funding source allows the 9-1-1 agency to focus on providing and improving service.110
– There is likely to be no savings from consolidation unless a champion stands up and builds a backbone network to eliminate duplication of
resources to serve smaller areas.111
– The lack of NG standards adds risk to NG projects.112
– Funding that is based on wireline service faces pressure from consumer trends toward wireless.113
– Funding that is based on wireline service faces pressure from consumer trends toward wireless.114
– Developing a funding mechanism that is separate from the normal appropriation mechanism has been effective in ensuring adequate 9-1-1
funds.115
– Consolidation improved the bargaining power with vendors – Many of the consolidation reports mentioned that the larger group resulting
from the consolidation was better able to work with vendors and communication companies. Although not directly mentioned, it seems that
the increased bargaining power of the consolidated agencies would result in lower costs.
Service Drivers
– It is impossible for small agencies in rural areas to provide 9-1-1 service due to their small size, making consolidation the only way to
provide 9-1-1.116
– Creation of statewide 9-1-1 backbone was done in response to the realization that NG systems are facilitated by and facilitate consolidated
systems.117
108 WESCOM – question cc
109 Vermont – 1.1.7
110 Vermont – 1.1.10
111 Washington – 1.1.3
112 Washington – 1.1.3
113 MESB – 1.1.10
114 MESB – 1.1.10
115 Denco – 1.1.9
116 Vermont 1.1.3
117 Washington – 1.1.1
Page 79The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– Trying to keep pace with technology changes was a driver for consolidation; individual agencies could not keep up on their own.118
– An initial goal of consolidation was to streamline government by having a single entity manage issues that were duplicated among all
participating agencies.119
– The increasing burden of keeping up with new technologies drove the consolidation effort.120
– Increase interoperability between agencies.121
Personnel Matters
– Consolidation has resulted in better trained and more focused personnel, increasing the level of public safety.122
– Training is provided by the state for county PSAPs.123
– Independent state board sets call taker standards and trains and certifies call takers employed by local agencies.124
– Consolidation has had a positive effect on the professionalism of the staff.125
– Consolidation provides a better career path for staff in smaller agencies.126
– Standardized training provided by consolidation positively impacts service.127
– Consolidation staff is limited to a small group of professionals who manage the consolidation activities. The call-taker and dispatch staff
works for the participating agencies.128
– Existing personnel needed to be reassured that they would still have jobs after consolidation. New compensation package was created early
on to assist with employee retention.129
– It took a lot of effort to develop protocols to ensure that calls are handled consistently and effectively.130
– Consolidation had a positive impact on staff training and professionalism, which improved service overall.131
118 Michigan – 1.1.3
119 MESB – 1.1.3
120 MESB – 1.1.3
121 Dakota – 1.1.3
122 WESCOM – question w
123 Washington 1.1.2
124 Vermont – 1.1.9
125 Michigan – 1.1.10
126 Michigan – 1.1.10
127 Michigan – 1.1.10
128 MESB – 1.1.8
129 Dakota – 1.1.4
130 Dakota – 1.1.10
Page 80The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
Methods to Increase Efficiency
– IP based next generation systems provide an economy of scale throughout the system allowing for significant (>20%) reductions in PSAPs
while improving service.132
– Virtual consolidation, where agencies maintain facility and staff but participate in unified network is an emerging trend.133
– Each member of the consolidation uses their existing resources to provide an area of functionality to the group, e.g. one agency manages
payroll, another provides legal, etc.134
Service Best Practices/Lessons Learned
– Overly strict privacy rules can inhibit data sharing that would increase responder effectiveness.135
– Initial policy that required the separation of 9-1-1 and dispatch were later seen as creating inefficiencies, and the polices were reversed to
encourage the merging of 9-1-1 and dispatch.136
– It is not practical to attempt the migration to NG9-1-1 systems on less than a state, or even multi-state basis.137
– Consolidation has provided better redundancy and diversity without increasing costs.138
– Rather than just providing incentive for countywide consolidation, there should be incentives for multicounty consolidation.139
– Bringing together 9-1-1, dispatch, and EMS under a single governance has allowed for a more broad analysis of issues
– Consolidation also involved reconciling the differing business practices among the participating agencies.140
– A monthly survey of the participating agencies is used to ensure that performance meets expectations.141
– Metrics, such as average time to answer, are tracked regularly to ensure high performance.142
– An inquiry system is used to track complaints.143
131 Dakota – 1.1.10
132 Vermont – 1.1.2
133 Michigan – 1.1.2
134 MESB – 1.1.5
135 Vermont – 1.1.4
136 MESB – 1.1.3
137 Washington – 1.1.3
138 Washington – 1.1.10
139 Washington – 1.1.10
140 Dakota – 1.1.4
141 Dakota – 1.1.9
142 Dakota – 1.1.9
143 Dakota – 1.1.9
Page 81The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– EMD training has resulted in reduced costs for the fire services.144
– Consolidation resulted in a significant reduction in response times.145
– Personnel matters are best managed through a single entity – A common theme in the case studies was the needs to have a single entity
manage the personnel. In some cases this was done by having the personnel work for the entity created by the consolidation, in others there
was an agreement that one agency would take the lead on personnel matters.
Technology Drivers
– The technical infrastructure within Public Safety Answering Points (9-1-1 centers) has become increasingly complex over the last decade.
– Technology Trends Yesterday Analog to Digital Today Standardization Tomorrow Convergence
– Common Platforms Common Protocols
– IP architecture is scalable and interoperable
– P25 the standard for Digital Communications Project 25 Is Becoming Increasingly Important for Grant Funding
– Advances in technology now provide significant call routing and dispatching flexibility.
– “Land Mobile Radio Systems - All new digital voice systems must be compliant with the Project 25 (P25) suite of standards.”
– FY 2010 SAFECOM Recommended Guidance for Federal Grant Programs, “Absent…compelling reasons, P25 equipment will be required
for LMR systems to which the standards apply.”
– The increased complexity has translated into both higher costs to maintain the technology as well as increased training requirements for 9-1-
1 center employees
– The traditional revenue streams relied on by 9-1-1 centers to fund costs is not keeping pace with the costs to replace and maintain the
technology.
– The convergence of technical systems combined with the escalating costs of maintaining those same systems makes consolidation of PSAPs
a serious consideration for decision makers.
– Consolidation can occur physically where agencies share the same physical space or virtually where agencies share technical systems like
CAD, Radio, RMS, etc.
– Technology may be a big hurdle to consolidation but experience has shown that governance and political issues may be harder to solve.
– Consolidation of radio systems in the long term can significantly increase communications interoperability by placing first responders on the
same platform.
– Inability of centers on their own to fund new technologies like Next Generation 9-1-1.
144 Dakota – 1.1.9
145 Dakota – 1.1.10
Page 82The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 2 - Interview Questionnaire Summary Data & Findings
– 9-1-1 calls being transferred among multiple 9-1-1 centers delaying assistance to the public
– Inability of centers to maintain adequate staffing and/or training levels.
– Short term technology solutions can revolve around existing systems and their scalability to accommodate multiple agencies.
– Initial technical consolidation efforts should capitalize on existing standardized technologies, practices and processes.
– Long term technology investments should adhere to established standards published by reputable public safety organizations like APCO,
NENA, etc.
– Consolidation of multiple 9-1-1 centers should be seriously considered if jurisdiction is experiencing some or all of the following: Multiple
centers or locations in need of technical upgrades or technology refreshment, service levels slip below expectations; centers experience an
increase in multi-jurisdictional responses which might better be handled by one center than several.
Page 83The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 3 - Consolidated Communications Center Survey Results
6.3 Appendix 3 - Consolidated Communications Center Survey Results
The APCO Consolidated Center Directors Network (CCDN) is comprised of public safety
communications center directors representing our nation’s consolidated, multi-jurisdiction or multi-
agency centers. The CCDN was established to advise APCO and the industry at-large and to make
recommendations to the Board of Officers on public safety communications issues. In an effort to
provide tools to those APCO members, who may be contemplating consolidation, the CCDN has
been working to gather non-proprietary information about the consolidation of public safety
communications centers. One of these tools was the creation of a survey, which was developed by
the members of the network, who are Directors of consolidated centers from across the nation.
On April 20, 2010, the APCO International Consolidated Communications Center Survey was
released via the APCO Home page, sent to the APCO Governing Bodies for dissemination and
members of the network shared the survey with the consolidated counterparts in their states, as well.
The survey was open for approximately two months and was completed by 198 individuals
nationwide. Included herein are the results of the survey. For the purposes for this survey,
consolidation was defined as the combining of two or more Communications Centers into a single
facility and/or organization using one of several existing models. The survey was comprised of
questions that focused on areas of demographics, governance, operational issues, staffing, and
funding.
– Over 47% of respondents stated that they were motivated to consolidation because research
suggested economic benefits and 45% of the respondents stated that they were motivated by
suggested operational benefits.
– 69% of respondents stated that the largest challenge to consolidation was related to personnel
issues such as training, mingling of different staffs and unions, with 68% of the respondents
stating that securing “agency buy-in” was the next biggest challenge.
– Respondents were asked to rank benefits of consolidation, and over 84% of the respondents
stated that single point of contact and control was the biggest benefit. Drawbacks to the
consolidation process included interagency rivalry and politics.
– The organizational structure of the consolidated centers varied; however, over 72% of the
centers were civilian based, and the majority of consolidated centers are funded through
telephone surcharge fees (76%).
– Based upon the results of the survey, consolidated centers are diverse in their makeup and
populations served, with 29.6% of the centers having a population between 100,001 and
250,000, with over 27.5% who process between 250,001 and 500,000 calls for service
annually.
The CCDN is pleased to present the survey and its findings and hope that the following provides
APCO members with information that will assist their organizations as they contemplate the concept
of consolidation. Should you want to obtain additional information regarding the survey or have
questions regarding consolidation, please contact the Consolidated Center Directors Network
(CCDN) through APCO’s Professional Networking Platform, PSConnect.
Page 84The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
6.4 Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
Communications Center Consolidation Considerations146
A guide for those contemplating the consolidation of one or more Public Safety Answering
Points
Determine Type of Consolidation Desired
(cid:31) Co‐Location Only: Multiple agencies share common facility but maintain separate call
taking/dispatch capability.
(cid:31) Single Discipline Call taking: Multiple agencies of common discipline (i.e. police
only) share common facility and consolidate call taking operations.
(cid:31) Single Discipline Dispatch: Multiple agencies of common discipline (i.e. police only)
share common facility and consolidate dispatch operations.
(cid:31) Consolidated Call taking: Multiple agencies share common facility and consolidate
call taking operations for more than one discipline.
(cid:31) Full Consolidation: Multiple agencies share common facility and consolidate call
taking and dispatch operations across multiple disciplines.
(cid:31) Virtual Consolidation: Variation of scenarios 2‐5 listed above wherein PSAP maintains
separate physical locations but share common call taking and/or dispatch capabilities
over a secure managed network.
(cid:31) Dual Mode Consolidation: Variation of scenarios 1‐5 listed above whereby both public
safety and non‐public safety agencies share a common facility and potentially a
degree of shared technology (i.e. 9‐1‐1 and 3‐1‐1 sharing common facility and
common CAD system).
Check the Legal Requirements
(cid:31) What is and what is not required to conduct a consolidation?
(cid:31) How does state law speak to this issue?
(cid:31) Will simple memoranda of understanding or intergovernmental agreement suffice, or is
a referendum required?
(cid:31) If so, what steps are required to place it on the ballot?
(cid:31) Are there restrictions as to what unit of government can operate or manage a PSAP?
(cid:31) Are there mandates requiring consolidation?
(cid:31) Do external requirements such as NCIC have a bearing?
146
On April 20, 2010, the APCO International Consolidated Communications Center Survey was released;
checklist published here with permission.
Page 85The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
Identify Requirements‐(Develop a case for consolidation)
(cid:31) How do you know if consolidation is right for an agency?
(cid:31) Are calls being transferred among or between agencies?
(cid:31) Are multiple agency responses having to be coordinated between and among different
dispatch centers?
(cid:31) Are critical systems or facilities having to be upgraded or replaced?
(cid:31) Are there performance or service levels below desires or expectations?
(cid:31) Are there concerns about sustainable funding for operations or for communications
systems, CAD, radio, NG 9‐1‐1?
(cid:31) What makes consolidation a viable alternative?
(cid:31) What are the perceived benefits?
(cid:31) What improvements can be expected?
(cid:31) How do proposed costs compare with current expenditures?
(cid:31) Upon what research/data are these conclusions based?
Identify Requirements‐(Continued)
(cid:31) Note that consolidations may not save a significant amount of money especially during
“start‐up”. Given this, what are other “selling factors?”
• Improved services to the citizens
• Consistent and uniform services
• Improved coordination and interoperability (i.e. cross jurisdiction, officer
safety, etc.)
• Major incident coordination
• Economies of scale
• Potential long term cost effectiveness.
Identify Interested Agencies
(cid:31) What agencies are likely participants?
(cid:31) What services do they expect?
Identify Challenges
(cid:31) What agencies are against the proposal?
(cid:31) What are their objections?
• Local distrust
• Trying to please all and do all for all agencies
Page 86The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
• Creating and sustaining political commitment
• Overcoming perception of loss of local touch or specialized services
• Overcoming fear of decreased level of services
• Fear of job loss (dispatchers and/or first responders)
(cid:31) Can these be overcome? How?
(cid:31) Get buy‐in and participation not only from PSAP and communications managers, but
from public officials and CEOs of participating agencies and municipalities, as well.
(cid:31) When and if appropriate, seek public support.
Identify Best Governance For Your Situation
(cid:31) How will the center likely be managed?
(cid:31) Will it be managed by one participating agency?
(cid:31) Controlled by a joint powers agreement and report to a board?
(cid:31) Will there be separate operations (fire, law, EMS) and governance boards or a single
body?
(cid:31) Will the structure be civilian versus uniform or some hybrid thereof?
Page 87The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
Develop Participation Projections
(cid:31) How many agencies will participate?
(cid:31) What is their total call volume?
(cid:31) What services are expected?
(cid:31) Are current policies and procedures reasonably compatible or could they be so?
(cid:31) How many telecommunicators will be required (using Project RETAINS, Erlang
formulae, etc.)
(cid:31) How many support personnel?
(cid:31) Are there a minimum number of agencies required to make the project work?
(cid:31) Are any singular agencies critical to the success?
Determine Facility Projections
(cid:31) What are the political and operational concerns associated with PSAP location?
(cid:31) How can these be defined and addressed?
(cid:31) What features are desired?
(cid:31) Are there any special levels of protection needed, such as seismic or wind?
(cid:31) How will the facility be furnished?
(cid:31) What are the security needs?
(cid:31) Can an existing PSAP fill these needs or is construction required?
(cid:31) Can this PSAP be expanded or does this construction require a new location?
(cid:31) Is there Government land available if a new build is necessary?
(cid:31) If no Government land exists, is another suitable property available?
(cid:31) If so, at what cost?
(cid:31) Will a backup center be required?
(cid:31) Can an existing PSAP easily become a backup Center?
Investigate Technology Needs
(cid:31) Can CAD, phone, radio, recording and other systems in place be used?
(cid:31) Upgraded?
(cid:31) Is all new technology required to support consolidation?
(cid:31) Does radio interoperability exist?
(cid:31) At what level?
(cid:31) How can this be improved, if needed?
(cid:31) Are there ways of phasing in new technology?
(cid:31) If so, how, and over what time period?
(cid:31) Do any agencies have major technology upgrades (such as narrow banding or the
addition of AVL or MDTs) in their future?
(cid:31) How will this be managed?
Resolve Staffing Issues
(cid:31) Will all current employees keep their jobs?
(cid:31) If not, how will selections be made?
(cid:31) How will new vacancies be filled?
(cid:31) Are any personnel unionized?
(cid:31) Are they all represented by the same bargaining agent?
(cid:31) How is this addressed?
Page 88The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
(cid:31) How will past accrued time be honored?
(cid:31) Will seniority matter?
(cid:31) How will supervisors be chosen?
(cid:31) Are all potential participants at or near the same pay scale?
(cid:31) If not, what are the acceptable options for handling this?
(cid:31) In multi‐discipline centers will all employees be expected to handle all agencies, or will
“specialized” dispatchers (fire only, law only, etc.) be used?
(cid:31) How does this impact salary?
(cid:31) What schedule will be used?
(cid:31) Are there enough existing employees to handle this? Too many?
Address Management Issues
(cid:31) How will an SOP be generated?
(cid:31) Can pieces of existing SOPs be used or will a new document be required?
(cid:31) Will one user agency be responsible for management of personnel and budgetary
processes, or will center adopt its own best practices?
(cid:31) If so, does this require the filing of additional documents with any governing agency?
(cid:31) How will salary and benefits be determined?
(cid:31) Will uniforms be provided?
(cid:31) What about retirement?
(cid:31) Will legal counsel for the center be required, or can it be provided by a user agency?
(cid:31) What accreditations are mandated? SCIC/NCIC?
(cid:31) Will voluntary accreditations such as CALEA be sought?
(cid:31) If so, when, by whom, and at what cost?
(cid:31) Does the State have basic requirements for PSAPs or personnel?
(cid:31) Look into legacy issues such as agencies relying on their PSAP to provide
non‐traditional services, or serving as a “pick up point” for hard‐copy information.
How will this change?
Develop Cost Estimates
(cid:31) What are the start‐up costs?
(cid:31) Annual cost of operation?
(cid:31) Recurring capital expenses (what are system life‐cycles?)
(cid:31) Make sure that ALL expenditures are carefully identified and documented. For example,
personnel will require at least some training regarding the new organization and/or
facility. Determine if this will this be part of the consolidated budget, or if future
users be responsible for supporting these costs directly prior to the official start‐up.
Create a Funding Model
Page 89The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
(cid:31) Upon creation of a budget, determine how first year costs will be funded.
(cid:31) Will this be different for future fiscal years?
(cid:31) If so, how?
(cid:31) If the plan calls for work to begin in the middle of a fiscal year, how will this be
addressed?
(cid:31) Are all participants on the same fiscal cycle?
(cid:31) If not, identify how the consolidated budget can best interface with these.
(cid:31) Are funds from other than user agency sources available such as state 9‐1‐1 fees or
federal or state grants?
(cid:31) If so, how much can be guaranteed?
(cid:31) What type of auditing procedure is required by law and how will this be accomplished?
(cid:31) Determine upon what factors contributions will be based. Gather information on many
models before deciding.
(cid:31) Involve the CFOs of participants in this process.
Review “Best Practices” Documentation on the Subject
Remember – you are not the first person to undertake a consolidation!
(cid:31) Check APCO and other resources for timely information.
(cid:31) Identify other similar sized centers that have successfully consolidated and make a few
calls, perhaps even visit.
(cid:31) Get one‐on‐one advice from people who have “been there and done that.”
(cid:31) Incorporate these suggestions into your plan.
Create a Transition Plan
(cid:31) Make a “to do” list of everything that must be done to get from where you are now to
where you want to be. Don’t expect to get it perfect the first time as it will become a
living document. Consider using project management software such as Microsoft
Project to track your timeline and resources.
(cid:31) The timelines are also a critical ‘selling’ point early on.
(cid:31) Identify dependencies.
• What has to be done first?
• What can’t be done until other actions are accomplished?
(cid:31) Make sure communications are frequent and remain open. Briefings need to occur more
often closer to cutover, and needs to continue for some time thereafter. Leave
sufficient time to adequately complete the tasks at hand.
(cid:31) Develop a realistic transition budget with contingency.
(cid:31) Identify any “deal breakers” or “drop dead dates” that may exist.
(cid:31) Create a committee to oversee the transition (and even individual critical components)
with key players assigned to manage key tasks.
Training
(cid:31) Identify and analyze all existing training including any specialty training (such as EMD,
EMT, teletype, etc.).
Page 90The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
(cid:31) Conduct a needs assessment as part of the process to assist in determining training
standards
Create a Business Plan
(cid:31) Using input from all of the above, generate the first draft of a business plan.
(cid:31) In addition to normal operational concerns, attention should be given to the need for
potential consulting services as well as the identification of alternate sources of
funding.
(cid:31) Examine not only the start‐up of the center, but its long‐term management.
(cid:31) Address continuity of operations.
(cid:31) Identify the perceived challenges during the first five years and address them.
(cid:31) Use available data to chart projected demands and community growth.
(cid:31) Address technology life‐cycles and personnel needs starting at day one and moving
toward the future.
Do you need a consultant?
(cid:31) A consultant can independently review the facts and figures and then keep needs and
budgets "realistic".
(cid:31) Some political issues revolving around consolidation may be better served by a
third‐party consultant.
(cid:31) It is imperative that the selection of a consultant be agreed upon by all major players.
This can preemptively addresses issues.
(cid:31) In the end this decision rests with the localities involved.
Effect the Consolidation
(cid:31) Set a firm but flexible time line or schedule for the milestones of implementation.
Conduct all needed tests (more than once!).
(cid:31) Verify that all systems are in place and working and that all employees have been
trained.
(cid:31) Implement the final stages of the transition plan.
(cid:31) Identify participants.
• Will all agencies participate from hour one, day one, or will there be a gradual
ramping up?
(cid:31) Ensure sufficient staffing and vendor technical support is onsite before and after the cut.
(cid:31) Notify the media of the event.
Page 91The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 4 - Consolidated Communications Center Guide
Effect the Consolidation
(cid:31) Periodically update them during the project to maintain public and user interest. Have an
‘open house’ ahead of cutover.
(cid:31) Publicize any seven digit numbers that may have changed.
(cid:31) Decommission those facilities no longer needed.
(cid:31) Address major issues immediately.
(cid:31) Consider “pooling” minor issues to deal with when the dust settles as they may not be
issues at all.
(cid:31) Hold plenty of debriefing sessions to identify the good, bad, and ugly of the experience.
(cid:31) Then, relax!
Page 92The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 5 - APCO Standards
6.5 Appendix 5 - APCO Standards
Even before APCO International became an ANSI-accredited Standards Developer, the
association strove to ensure that standards and effective practices were developed to address the
needs of our members and the public safety communications industry at large. Led primarily in
these activities by the APCO Call Center Standards Committee, in the development of these
standards, APCO has produced some of the industry’s most recognized and respected standards
and effective practices.
– PSAP-Service Capability Criteria Rating Scale This standard is intended to assist
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) Managers and their governing authorities to
identify their current level of service capability. An assessment tool is provided to
objectively assess capabilities of the PSAP against models representing different
levels of preparedness, survivability and sustainability amidst a wide range of natural
and man-made events.
– Wireless 9-1-1 Deployment and Management Effective Practices Guide
– APCO International's Project LOCATE (Locate Our Citizens At Times of
Emergencies) developed the content of the Wireless 9-1-1 Deployment and Effective
Practices Guide. These Effective Practices (EPs) are designed to increase the PSAP
Managers’ understanding of the technology application and the ability to better
manage wireless calls, as well as public and responder expectations.
– Core Competencies for Public Safety Communications Manager/Director This
standard outlines the core competencies that define the basic functions, duties,
responsibilities, knowledge, abilities and expertise attributable to individuals who
manage public safety communication functions. It respects the diverse nature of
public safety communications, competencies may vary dependent upon the size of
the agency, service demographics and types of services provided. Areas identified
include: managing self and personal skills, providing direction, facilitating change,
working with people, using resources and achieving results.
– Minimum Training Standards for Public Safety Communications Training Officer
The focus of the Minimum Training Standards for the Public Safety Communications
Training Officer is to provide training necessary to foster levels of consistency for
training officers providing on-the-job training to active 9-1-1 operators and
telecommunicators, as well as to promote the leadership role of the CTO in a public
safety communications center.
– Minimum Training Standards for Public Safety Communications First-Level
Supervisors. This standard identifies the minimum training requirements for First-
Level Public Safety Communications Supervisors. This position is typically charged
with overseeing the daily operations of a public safety answering point and the
actions of telecommunicators.
– Project 33 Revised – Minimum Training Standards for Public Safety
Telecommunicators. This standard identifies the minimum training requirements for
Page 93The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 5 - APCO Standards
public safety telecommunications officers, telecommunicators, call takers and/or
dispatchers.
– Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Training Standard for Communications
Officers Through the use of this standard, APCO International is encouraging all of
its chapters and members to develop timely, up-to-date and comprehensive training
programs that will prepare communications officers to effectively and appropriately
interact with people with disabilities during emergencies and non-emergency
encounters.
– APCO Recommended Best Practices Telematics Call Processing Telematics
Service Providers (TSP) offer a wide variety of programs to vehicle owners,
including location-based services and automatic collision notification. While many of
these services do not affect public safety, emergency caller situations clearly do.
Today, Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) receive consumer-initiated requests
for emergency assistance which are routed through a TSP.
– Project 25: Public Safety Radio Communications Project 25 (P25) is supported by
industry, government agencies and public safety communications officials alike,
including the Department of Homeland Security's National Communications System
(NCS), the Department of Defense, and the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (NTIA). Recognizing the need for common standards for
first responders and homeland security/emergency response professionals,
representatives from the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials
International (APCO), the National Association of State Telecommunications
Directors (NASTD), selected federal agencies and the National Communications
System (NCS) established Project 25, a steering committee for selecting voluntary
common system standards for digital public safety radio communications. P25-
compliant systems are being increasingly adopted and deployed. Radios can
communicate in analog mode with legacy radios and in either digital or analog mode
with other P25 radios. Additionally, the deployment of P25-compliant systems will
allow a high degree of equipment interoperability, compatibility and economy of
scale. Specifically, P25 systems can be maintained and upgraded cost effectively
over the system's life cycle, thus meeting user requirements, achieving
interoperability and security, promoting committed manufacturers to provide
compliant products, fostering competition and achieving cost-effective
emergency/safety communications solutions.
– Information Exchange Package Documents (IEPDs) an Information Exchange
Package document (IEPD) is a collection of artifacts that describe the structure and
content of information exchange. It describes that data involved in an exchange, but
does not specify other interface layers (such as web services). IEPDs are typically
created using the GJXDM and/or NIEM data models. [Include a copy of any actual
instruments.]
Page 94The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #1A
Key Findings and Effective Practices for Public Safety Consolidation October 2010
Appendix 6 - References
6.6 Appendix 6 - References
PSAP Consolidation Study – 2004 Report to the Minnesota Legislature. February 12, 2004.
http://www.9-1-1.state.mn.us/PDF/psap_final_report.pdf
National Emergency Communications Plan
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/national_emergency_communications_plan.pdf
National Summary of SCIPs. February 2009. This document is a summary of the 56 SCIPs
submitted to DHS in December 2007.
http://www.safecomprogram.gov/NR/rdonlyres/C6C0CD6A-0A15-4110-8BD4-
B1D8545F0425/0/NationalSummaryofSCIPs_February2009.pdf
Virtual PSAP Management National Emergency Number Association
http://www.nena.org/sites/default/files/NENA%20Virtual%20PSAP%20Management%2053-
507%20V1%2020090526.pdf
The System of Systems Approach for Interoperable Communications The brochure describes
effective technology planning from a system of systems approach and provides real-life
examples of how the system of systems methodology has improved interoperability.
http://www.safecomprogram.gov/NR/rdonlyres/FD22B528-18B7-4CB1-AF49-
F9626C608290/0/SOSApproachforInteroperableCommunications_02.pdf
Page 95
