PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/ocbo-cybersecurity-tools-tips-small-business-03292022.pdf:
Federal Communications Commission
Washington, D.C. 20554
March 29, 2022
The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau &
the Office of Communications Business Opportunities Offers
Online Cybersecurity Tools and Tips to the Small Business Community
The FCC’s Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau periodically receives cybersecurity
alerts and tips from the federal government agency, Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security
Agency (CISA) about safeguarding computer networks. PSHSB shared this information with the
Office of Communications Business Opportunities so we may disseminate this important
information to the small business community.
In this notice, we share with you a recent CISA announcement about a list of free cybersecurity
services and tools the agency compiled to help organizations:
1. Reduce the likelihood of a damaging cyber incident;
2. Detect malicious activity quickly;
3. Respond effectively to confirmed incidents; and
4. Maximize network resilience.
This non-exhaustive repository includes services provided by CISA, widely used open source
tools, and free tools and services offered by private and public sector organizations across the
cybersecurity community.
OCBO strongly recommends organizations take the following protective measures to secure their
networks:
1. Fix known security flaws in software.
2. Implement multifactor authentication.
3. Take steps to halt bad practices, including the use of end-of-life software products and
systems that rely on known/default/unchangeable passwords.
4. Sign up for CISA’s Cyber Hygiene Vulnerability Scanning service.
5. Get your Stuff Off Search (S.O.S.).
We encourage small businesses to take the above steps and consult the list of available
cybersecurity services and tools to reduce the risk of exposing business networks to potentially
damaging cyber incidents.
Thank you,
The FCC Office of Communications Business Opportunities and
Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau
