HTML Content from https://www.cisa.gov/topics/critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience/critical-infrastructure-sectors/communications-sector:
Communications Sector | Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Free Cyber Services Secure by design Secure Our World Shields Up Report A Cyber Issue Search Menu Close Topics Topics Cybersecurity Best Practices Cyber Threats and Advisories Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Election Security Emergency Communications Industrial Control Systems Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security Partnerships and Collaboration Physical Security Risk Management How can we help? Government Educational Institutions Industry State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial Individuals and Families Small and Medium Businesses Find Help Locally Faith-Based Community Executives High-Risk Communities Spotlight Resources & Tools Resources & Tools All Resources & Tools Services Programs Resources Training Groups News & Events News & Events News Events Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories Directives Request a CISA Speaker Congressional Testimony CISA Conferences CISA Live! Careers Careers Benefits & Perks HireVue Applicant Reasonable Accommodations Process Hiring Resume & Application Tips Students & Recent Graduates Veteran and Military Spouses About About Divisions & Offices Regions Leadership Doing Business with CISA Site Links CISA GitHub CISA Central Contact Us Subscribe Policies & Plans Free Cyber Services Secure by design Secure Our World Shields Up Report A Cyber Issue Breadcrumb Home Topics Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Critical Infrastructure Sectors Communications Sector Share: Communications Sector The private sector is primarily responsible for protecting sector infrastructure and assets. CISA helps the private sector predict, anticipate, and respond to sector outages. Critical Infrastructure Sectors Chemical Sector Commercial Facilities Sector Communications Sector Critical Manufacturing Sector Dams Sector Defense Industrial Base Sector Emergency Services Sector Energy Sector Financial Services Sector Food and Agriculture Sector Government Services and Facilities Sector Healthcare and Public Health Sector Information Technology Sector Nuclear Reactors, Materials, and Waste Sector Transportation Systems Sector Water and Wastewater Sector Sector Details The Communications Sector is an integral component of the U.S. economy, underlying the operations of all businesses, public safety organizations, and government. Presidential Policy Directive 21 identifies the Communications Sector as critical because it provides an “enabling function” across all critical infrastructure sectors. Over the last 25 years, the sector has evolved from predominantly a provider of voice services into a competitive and interconnected industry using terrestrial, satellite, and wireless transmission systems. The transmission of these services has become interconnected; satellite, wireless, and wireline providers depend on each other to carry and terminate their traffic and companies routinely share facilities and technology to ensure interoperability. Overview The private sector, as owners and operators of the majority of communications infrastructure, is the primary entity responsible for protecting sector infrastructure and assets. Working with the federal government, the private sector is able to predict, anticipate, and respond to sector outages and understand how they might affect the ability of the national leadership to communicate during times of crisis, impact the operations of other sectors, and affect response and recovery efforts. The Communications Sector is closely linked to other sectors, including: The Energy Sector , which provides power to run cellular towers, central offices, and other critical communications facilities and also relies on communications to aid in monitoring and controlling the delivery of electricity. The Information Technology Sector , which provides critical control systems and services, physical architecture, and Internet infrastructure, and also relies on communications to deliver and distribute applications and services. The Financial Services Sector , which relies on communications for the transmission of transactions and operations of financial markets. The Emergency Services Sector , which depends on communications for directing resources, coordinating response, operating public alert and warning systems, and receiving emergency 9-1-1 calls. The Transportation Systems Sector , which provides the diesel fuel needed to power backup generators and relies on communications to monitor and control the flow of ground, sea, and air traffic. Sector-Specific Plan The Communications Sector-Specific Plan details how the National Infrastructure Protection Plan risk management framework is implemented within the context of the unique characteristics and risk landscape of the sector. Each Sector Risk Management Agency develops a sector-specific plan through a coordinated effort involving its public and private sector partners. The Department of Homeland Security is designated as the Sector Risk Management Agency for the Communications Sector. Communications Sector-Specific Plan - 2015 (PDF,       3.05 MB
  ) Sector Resources and Working Groups Communications Sector Risk Management Agency Fact Sheet AUG 05, 2021
 | PUBLICATION This printer-friendly fact sheet lists a sampling of sector collaboration mechanisms, resources, and training materials. Download File (PDF, 515.63 KB) Communications Sector Charters DEC 17, 2020
 | PUBLICATION View the charters for the Communications Sector Councils. View Files Related Topics These related topics offer additional resources, training, and services associated with the Communications Sector. Emergency Communications CISA provides plans, resources, and training to support emergency communications for first responders. Cyber Threats and Advisories Defending our nation against ever-evolving cyber threats and attacks is at the core of CISA’s mission. CISA offers the latest cybersecurity news, advisories, alerts, tools, and resources. Return to top Topics Spotlight Resources & Tools News & Events Careers About Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency Facebook X LinkedIn YouTube Instagram RSS CISA Central 1-844-Say-CISA SayCISA@cisa.dhs.gov DHS Seal CISA.gov An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security About CISA Budget and Performance DHS.gov FOIA Requests No FEAR Act Office of Inspector General Privacy Policy Subscribe The White House USA.gov Website Feedback
