PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC%20IV%20WG7%20Legacy%20Best%20Practices%20Final.pdf:
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
September 2014 WORKING GROUP 7
Legacy Best Practices Updates
Final Report – Legacy Best Practices
Page 1 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 4
Working Group 7 Team Members............................................................................................... 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 5
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 5
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 6
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 7
3.3.1 Best Practice Legacy Identification Process ............................................................. 7
3.3.2 Best Practice Review Checklist ................................................................................ 8
3.3.3 Best Practice Review Process ................................................................................... 9
3.3.4 Best Practice Supporting Elements ......................................................................... 10
3.3.5 Best Practice Wording Structure ............................................................................. 11
3.3.6 Best Practice Implementation to Production........................................................... 11
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations ............................................................................ 13
4.1 Analysis .......................................................................................................................... 13
4.2 Findings .......................................................................................................................... 13
Recommendations ..................................................................................................................... 16
5 Conclusions ............................................................................................................................ 18
6 Appendix 1 – Best Practice Recommendations ..................................................................... 19
7 Appendix 2 – Best Practice Supporting Element Definitions .............................................. 161
Page 2 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council's (CSRIC) mission is to
provide recommendations to the FCC to ensure, among other things, optimal security and
reliability of communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety.
The primary objective of Best Practices is to provide guidance, based on assembled industry
expertise and experience, to improve network security, reliability and resiliency1. In order to
provide that guidance, Best Practices must be regularly and expertly reviewed and updated,
expanded, or in some cases deleted to provide the most valuable and dependable source of
industry guidance. This final report takes a fresh look at 476 legacy Best Practices that have not
been reviewed since CSRIC II. In addition a set of proposals made by the Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) Network Reliability Steering Committee
(NRSC) were considered and incorporated into the wider body of Best Practices.
In the 1990’s the Network Reliability Council (NRC), the predecessor of the Network
Reliability Interoperability Council (NRIC) and CSRIC defined Best Practices as
“countermeasures (but not the only countermeasures) which go furthest in eliminating the root
cause(s) of network outages. It is understood that all countermeasures may not be universally
applicable.” The FCC currently defines Best Practices as “the most efficient and effective
method of accomplishing the tasks in each of our covered areas, based on repeatable procedures
that have proven themselves over time for large numbers of people, responses, organizations, or
functions.2” In this final report Working Group 7 makes every effort to preserve the intent of the
original creators of Best Practices in improving and protecting the nation’s communications
networks by the sharing of expert knowledge in a consistent and voluntary approach. From
creation, Best Practices were understood to be a foundation of voluntary guidance for different
and unique communication network business models and it remains vital they maintain their
intended flexibility and innovation in a non-mandated environment.
One key element in any modification of Best Practices is to use a consistent and repeatable
methodology during their assessment. This ensures that analyses are completed in the same
manner by multiple teams, and results in a Best Practice that can be applied by the largest
audience possible. In this report Working Group 7 addresses legacy Best Practices and speaks
to their continued relevance considering that some Best Practices may have become outdated,
superseded, duplicative with other Best Practices, or no longer address a current problem.
Finally, the wording of a Best Practice should address a single thought and should not promote
“pay-for” documents.
In this final report, Working Group 7 provides recommendations on modified and no longer
relevant legacy Best Practices and new Best Practices we defined early in the process as “Best
Practices that address categories that are non-cyber security and non-public safety. This
1
ATIS Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC) Best Practice Tutorial Revised February 2014
2
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/clearinghouse/best-practices.html, last visited August 14, 2014
Page 3 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
definition applies to Best Practice network types of Cable, Internet/Data, Satellite, Wireless, and
Wireline.” Working Group 7 also addressed gaps discovered during analysis with
recommendations for future CSRICs to consider. Working Group 7 recommends that the
CSRIC Council adopt the Best Practice updates and gap findings as proposed.
2 Introduction
This final report documents the efforts undertaken by the CSRIC IV Working Group 7 with
respect to the modernization of 476 legacy Best Practices. The review of Best Practices on a
regular basis is essential in providing the communications industry the most comprehensive and
up-to-date guidance on network security, reliability, and resiliency. The report outlines
recommendations regarding the creation of new Best Practices, modification or deletion of
targeted Best Practices, and also includes recommendations regarding the proposed
modifications by the NRSC submitted to CSRIC for consideration. The report also describes
gaps in the Best Practice process identified by Working Group 7 during their assessment.
Finally, the report provides a recommended approach for evaluation of Best Practices by future
CSRICs outlining a consistent methodology.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or
Co-Chairs: Co-Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co-
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working Group 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Long-Term Legacy Submarine Infrastructure 10: CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Core Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
Page 4 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Working Group 7 Team Members
Working Group 7 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Kyle Malady - Chair Verizon
Mary Boyd Intrado
Tim Collier Sprint
Shahin Daneshkhah Sprint
Victor DeVito* AT&T
Stacy Hartman* CenturyLink
Robin Howard* Verizon
Rick Krock* Alcatel Lucent
John Marinho CTIA
Bob Oenning 911RP
Andre Savage Cox Communications
Andy Scott NCTA
Gigi Smith APCO
Kathy Whitbeck Nsight
Christian Vogler Gallaudet University
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
*Subteam Leaders
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
The CSRIC IV Council has been charged with refreshing a subset of industry Best Practices not
reviewed since CSRIC II and to modernize, enhance, or clarify them based on changes in
technology, practices, or observed reliability trends.
Objective 1: Identify Legacy Best Practices
This objective was to review the current set of industry Best Practices and identify a subset of
those to be studied for legacy reliability and resiliency applications. Best Practices would be
further analyzed to determine any modernization, enhancements, or clarifications that could be
made to improve their use by industry and public safety authorities.
Objective 2: Review and Modify Legacy Best Practices
This objective was to review the subset of industry Best Practices determined to qualify as
legacy Best Practices. Where necessary additional Best Practices would be recommended given
changes in technology, practices, or observed reliability trends. The review was performed
using a standardized checklist to ensure a consistent assessment was performed on each Best
Practice.
Page 5 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Objective 3: Recommend Changes to Existing Best Practices
This objective was to document the recommended changes to qualifying Best Practices, new
recommended Best Practices, and Best Practices identified for deletion. The Best Practice
recommendations were provided in a standardized format for ease of database entry following
approval by CSRIC IV Council.
Objective 4: Incorporate Recommendations by ATIS
This objective was to review revisions to Best Practices proposed by ATIS NRSC and
recommend how to incorporate the changes into the wider body of Best Practices. This was
accomplished by reviewing the ATIS revisions against Working Group 7 recommendations and
blending the suggestions into each Best Practice.
3.2 Scope
This final report analyzes current Best Practices that were originally developed as applicable to
legacy networks, systems, and processes. Identified “in scope” Best Practices were to be
evaluated for continued relevance, applicability to current network technology where
appropriate, as well as structure, wording, and reference updates. Given this scope it was
essential to perform an initial review on the full set of 1,022 Best Practices developed by
previous NRIC Focus Groups and CSRIC Working Groups. The full Best Practice data set did
not qualify under the definition of legacy Best Practices as defined by Working Group 7;
therefore it was determined that those Best Practices that weren’t relative to the study were out
of scope. This report also outlines the development of new Best Practices, and the identification
of any gaps, that will provide additional guidance to industry and public safety authorities.
This report reinforces previous guidance that industry Best Practices are voluntary in nature and
may not apply in every situation due to the need for flexibility, innovation, and control in the
management of different carriers’ unique business models, cost, feasibility, resource limitations,
or other factors. This guidance is consistent with work completed by previous CSRIC Working
Groups in CSRIC II and CSRIC III. CSRIC II Working Group 6 concluded:
Compliance with the Best Practices should not be a regulatory mandate. Attempting to identify
which Best Practices might be required of every participant in the communications industry
would be very impractical, if not impossible. Mandating compliance with particular Best
Practices would impact the ability of organizations, their customers, and other constituents to
manage the value proposition, the pricing that defines their business models, and participation in
the industry. Compliance with Best Practices should be voluntary in order to allow for co-
existence of new and old technologies.3”
Similarly, CSRIC III Working Group 8 concluded:
It is important that Working Group 8 reminds readers that industry Best Practices are voluntary
in nature and may not apply to all Service Providers, Network Operators, or Public Safety
entities due to scope, cost, feasibility, or resource limitations. Best Practices should be used by
3
CSRIC II Working Group 6 Best Practice Implementation Final Report, January 2011, Key
Recommendations, page 3 of 51.
Page 6 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
experts who have the overall experience to interpret the individual Best Practice in the manner in
which it was intended4.
3.3 Methodology
The process for determining methodology is often based in theory and can be said to encompass
the use of “Best Practices” which are the set of methods applied to address a given issue. In this
report Working Group 7 documents the ongoing evolution of industry Best Practices in a
consistent and repeatable manner using an assembled team of experts that applied a best practice
approach in achieving the objectives. In this section, Working Group 7 outlines the Best
Practice methodology used in performing the work entrusted to us. We have confidence that
future CSRIC Working Groups would benefit from review and use of this process to more
efficiently move Best Practice assessment from concept to implementation.
3.3.1 Best Practice Legacy Identification Process
Working Group 7 decided that legacy NRIC/CSRIC Best Practices would be defined as the
subset of the total Best Practice library that was not related to cyber security or applied only to
public safety. These Best Practices have a numbering format that typically assigns a single
number as a classification code, and then a unique three number reference for each Best
Practice. The format for NRIC/CSRIC Best Practices is based on the following format5:
X – Y – Z# # #
Where:
X = the current, or most recent, CSRIC Council
Y = the CSRIC Council in which the Best Practice was last edited
Z = 0-4 for Network Reliability and Interoperability
= 1 for Disaster Recovery and Mutual Aid
= 3 for Public Safety
= 5 for Physical Security
= 8 for Cyber Security
### = any digits, where every Best Practice has a unique Z# # #
Working Group 7 identified a total of 476 of the 1,002 current Best Practices in which to target
our initial review, which was broken out as follows:
Best Practices
275 – Network Reliability and Interoperability
25 – Disaster Recovery and Mutual Aid
176 – Physical Security
4 CSRIC III Working Group 8 E9-1-1 Best Practices, Final Report Part 2, March 2013, Section 3.2
Scope, page 8 of 110.
5 ATIS Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC) Best Practice Tutorial Revised February 2014,
Best Practice Numbering Format
Page 7 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
3.3.2 Best Practice Review Checklist
In order to perform a consistent review of the Best Practices divided amongst the subteams, a
checklist was developed for Working Group 7 to use as an aid. The checklist consisted of 11
checkpoints the subteams were asked to review on each Best Practice. The checklist items were:
Checklist Item Definition Choices
In Scope Best Practice addresses an issue that is not Y = This BP is in-scope for Working Group 7
associated specifically to Cybersecurity or N = This BP is out of scope for Working
Public Safety needs or class of problems. Group 7
Relevant Best Practice is still valid and relevant to Y = BP is still relevant to industry
industry (i.e., it still addresses a current need N = BP does not address current needs, is
or class of problems). outdated, or could be recommended for
deletion
Wording OK Best Practice is worded in a way that clearly Y = BP is OK as written and no change is
states the need or class of problems and is OK necessary
as written. N = BP needs to be re-written and/or updated
References OK Reference material is relevant and worded OK Y = References are OK as written and no
for this Best Practice and does not need to be change is necessary
updated or removed. N = References are no longer accurate and
needs to be updated or deleted
Network Types Network Types for the Best Practice are Y = Network Types are accurately stated and
OK correctly stated and do not need to be no change is necessary
updated. N = Network Types need to be updated to
include/exclude one or more
Industry Roles Industry Roles for the Best Practice are Y = Industry Roles are accurately stated and
OK correctly stated and do not need to be no change is necessary
updated. N = Industry Roles need to be updated to
include/exclude one or more
Correct Status Status is correctly stated for this Best Practice Y = Status is accurately stated and no change
OK as Critically Important, Highly Important, or is necessary
Important. N = Status needs to be updated to a new status
Keywords OK Keywords are correctly identified for this Best Y = Keywords are accurately stated and no
Practice. change is necessary
N = Keywords needs to be updated to
include/exclude one or more
Web links OK Any Web links embedded in the Best Practice Y = Web link(s) are working and goes to the
are up to date and go to the correct web correct web site/page
site/page. N = Weblink(s) fail or do not go to the correct
web site/page
N/A = Not Applicable for this BP
No reference in There are no documents or web links Y = No document or weblink references in the
Best Practice mentioned in the Best Practice verbiage that BP verbiage
could be moved to the References section. N = There are document(s) and/or web links
in verbiage that need reviewed for movement
to reference section
N/A = Not Applicable for this BP
One Thought There is only a single thought contained in Y = There is only a single thought depicted in
this Best Practice. the BP
N = There are, or appears to be, multiple
thoughts referenced in the BP
Table 2 – Working Group Best Practice Review Checklist
Page 8 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
3.3.3 Best Practice Review Process
Working Group 7 performed a review of each Best Practice using a process based on the
checklist. At each checkpoint a decision needed to be made regarding the Best Practice.
Decisions triggered deeper evaluations, gap analysis, modifications, deletion recommendations,
up-to-date and no changes necessary determination, or new Best Practice recommendations.
Figure 1 provides a high level flow Working Group 7 followed for each Best Practice reviewed.
CSRIC IV WORKING GROUP 7: LEGACY BEST PRACTICE UPDATES
Best Practice Review Process Flow
Does the Separate
Identify the Best Best Practice Thoughts into
Yes
Practice to Review Contain Multiple Independent Best
Thoughts? Practices
Are the
Is the References/ Modify As
No Action Necessary No Best Practice Keywords/Status No
Appropriate
In-Scope? Current, Accurate &
Complete?
Yes Yes
No
Identify the Best
Is the Is the
Practice
Recommend Deletion No Best Practice Best Practice Yes
Number(s) that are
Relevant? Duplicative?
Duplicative
Yes No
Recommend Duplicate
Best Practice(s) Be
Deleted
Is the
Modify the
Best Practice Finalize the Best
Structure Where No
Structure Practice Review
Needed
Correct?
Yes
Yes
Does
Modify Wording to
Wording Clearly Recommend Best
Clarify Need/ No
State the Need/ Practice Approval
Problem
Problem?
Figure 1 - Best Practice Review Flow
Page 9 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
3.3.4 Best Practice Supporting Elements
A Best Practice is made up of two key building blocks – the Best Practice wording and the
references – which determine the value and guidance provided by the Best Practice to the largest
cross section of the communications industry. To assist users in finding specific Best Practices
and knowing how and when to apply them, four supporting elements are associated with each
Best Practice and need to be updated whenever a Best Practice is created or modified. The four
supporting elements of a Best Practice are; Network Type, Industry Role, Status, and Keywords.
Figure 2 represents the building blocks and supporting elements of a Best Practice Working
Group 7 used to analyze the targeted set of Best Practices.
Figure 2 - Building Blocks and Supporting Elements of a Best Practice
Each supporting element has several options available, each having a written definition to ensure
consistency in their application. When considering edits, the reviewer must review and update
the supporting element choices as appropriate, using the definitions as a guide. Individuals or
teams modifying Best Practices should have sufficient knowledge on the Best Practice subject
matter in order to select the proper elements. Short of this level of detail, a modification can
unintentionally change the original intent of the Best Practice and result in unreasonable and/or
inappropriate guidance to industry. In some cases it may also become necessary to look back to
the NRIC/CSRIC Final Report that first recommended the Best Practice to understand the
original intent.
Best Practice references are another consideration needing study to ensure they are not overly
narrow in focusing on particular documents where in fact multiple document options may exist.
When wording Best Practices, the inclusion of pay-for–use documents, web links, or highly
selective documents into the verbiage runs the risk of premature obsolescence or limiting the
Page 10 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
applicability of the Best Practice. Pay-for documents are those that a user of the Best Practice
would be required to acquire at a cost. Using pay-for documents as examples in the reference
section is acceptable, but they should be avoided in the main body of the Best Practice.
Appendix 2 includes the list of the supporting element definitions used by Working Group 7
during analysis of targeted Best Practices.
3.3.5 Best Practice Wording Structure
Best Practice wording is vital to the understanding, the passing of meaning, and the intent of the
authors. Figure 3 demonstrates the recommended ATIS NRSC Best Practice format that
Working Group 7 agrees is consistent in delivering the most concise and understandable
guidance. Best Practices that were structured in this format, in Working Group 7’s opinion,
were more to the point and had a better flow than those that did not follow this structure.
Figure 3 - Best Practice Wording Structure
3.3.6 Best Practice Implementation to Production
Working Group 7 agreed that one issue that has been often overlooked by other CSRIC Working
Groups is the format used when offering Best Practice recommendations to the CSRIC Council
for consideration. Following a successful adoption of a set of Best Practice recommendations it
is desirable for those Best Practices to move as quickly as possible into the two online
production databases used by industry6. Delivering new or modified Best Practices for
consideration without all of the supporting elements addressed can significantly delay their
introduction into the databases managed by the FCC and ATIS and, in turn, delay their adoption
by industry. Using past team experience with implementing CSRIC Best Practices, Working
Group 7 adopted a presentation format that has proven successful in providing an efficient
6
FCC Best Practice website: https://www.fcc.gov/nors/outage/bestpractice/BestPractice.cfm and ATIS
Best Practice website: http://www.atis.org/bestpractices/Default.aspx, last visited August 4, 2014.
Page 11 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
means for database entry.
Figure 4 shows the format Working Group 7 used to present recommendations to the CSRIC
Council in this report that can be used to expedite the inclusion of the Best Practices into the on-
line databases. In this example a modified Best Practice is shown. Each of the four supporting
elements of a Best Practice as discussed earlier in the report is addressed in this format.
Figure 4 - Presenting Best Practices
1. Current Best Practice number. The FCC is responsible for updating the Best Practice
number following Council approval or assigning a number for all newly created Best
Practices.
2. Best Practice verbiage recommendation, as modified and being presented for vote and
approval.
3. Detailed changes to the supporting elements of the Best Practice and reference sections
of the Best Practice. In the case of a recommended deletion, the explanation for the
deletion is provided.
4. Recommended Best Practice status following approval process of Best Practice (e.g.,
Critically Important, Highly Important, or Important).
5. Overall change being made to the Best Practice (e.g., New, Changed, Delete, or
Unchanged).
Page 12 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
4.1 Analysis
Working Group 7 divided the 476 legacy Best Practices identified as the targeted data set into
four smaller data sets. Teams A-D were assigned 120 Best Practices each to review and in turn
provided their initial recommendations to the full Working Group 7 team for consideration.
Each of the teams had a team leader who was well versed in Best Practice development. This
ensured that each team had an expert resource available to lead the team in discussions and to
provide periodic reports to the full team on any concerns or gaps identified. Prior to the reviews
beginning, training was provided using the Best Practice tutorial created by the ATIS NRSC.
Teams were asked to complete the 11 point checklist for each Best Practice reviewed and
document rationale for changes as necessary. Best Practice changes proposed by ATIS NRSC
were blended in alongside the team reviews to provide the best overall recommendations.
A monthly measure was established to keep teams on course and to make certain milestones set
by the full team were met. On 3/19/14 the full team met face-to-face in Washington, DC to
finalize the first half of the Best Practice recommendations. A total of three sets of Best
Practices were eventually analyzed with Round 1 review completed on 3/19/14, Round 2
completed on 5/27/14, and Round 3 completed on 6/13/14.
The full Working Group 7 team met on a regular basis through May 2014 to review overall
process. Upon completion of the final data set, the team met as necessary to complete the final
report. Working Group 7 full team meetings were held on 9/19/13, 9/26/13, 11/1/13, 11/26/13,
12/18/13, 1/15/14, 1/29/14, 2/12/14, 3/19/14, 4/9/14, 5/21/14, and 8/22/14. Between full team
calls, email was used to provide status updates and complete Best Practice reviews. Teams A-D
established their individual schedules of team meetings to review their subset of Best Practices.
Working Group 7 provided status readouts at CSRIC Council meetings on 9/12/13, 12/4/13,
3/20/14, 6/18/14, and 9/24/14.
4.2 Findings
Working Group 7 concluded an analysis of an initial set of 476 Best Practices. Through this
analysis using processes outlined earlier in this report, a total of 458 Best Practices were found
to be relevant and in scope and classified as legacy. A total of 18 were rejected as out of scope
and review was concluded. A total of four new Best Practices were created and one new NRSC
recommended Best Practice supporting elements were completed and 22 were found to be no
longer relevant or duplicative and were targeted for deletion. At the conclusion of the analysis,
a total of 396 Best Practices were updated with one or more changes and 40 were found to be
satisfactory as written and no changes were necessary.
During the analysis there were several key findings that had had a recurring theme. These issues
appeared at the highest rate and warrant further clarification:
Best Practice Taglines
A tagline is the short two to four word introduction found on many Best Practices. Working
Page 13 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Group 7 assessed the value of taglines and considered if they should be officially removed from
all current and future Best Practices. Due to the lack of consistency of taglines and because
existing search engines on the FCC and ATIS databases provide more than adequate search
options, Working Group 7 concluded they add no value and should be discontinued. Below are
two examples to demonstrate the ambiguity in taglines:
Tagline Examples (in red):
National Security and Emergency Preparedness: Government, Network Operators and
Service Providers of critical services to National Security and Emergency Preparedness
(NS/EP) users should be familiar with the Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP)
program and support / promote it as applicable. (Could also be “Telecommunications
Service Priority”)
Network Element Support: Network Operators and Service Providers should provide
duplicated, non-co-located maintenance administration, surveillance and support for
network elements. (Could also be “Duplicated Support Sites”)
Public Safety Industry Role
In CSRIC III, a new Industry Role of Public Safety was established to appropriately recognize
the importance of this key contributor to E9-1-1 reliability and resiliency7. This Industry Role
was found to be applicable to many legacy Best Practices in light of the fact that many Public
Safety organizations maintain their own communications networks. This Industry Role had not
been applied to the larger set of Best Practices since its approval in June of 2012. Where
applicable, Working Group 7 has updated in scope Best Practices to include this new Industry
Role.
Best Practice References
Working Group 7 discovered a number of Best Practices where information contained in the
body of the Best Practice was better aligned as reference support material. In these cases, the
Best Practice was found to be just as effective once specific standard documents, pay-for
documents, or web link references were moved to the reference support section. In other cases it
seemed that the authors of the Best Practices were unaware of the reference section and included
references as part of their development processes. Working Group 7 revised the Best Practices
to maintain the original intent of the Best Practice while preserving the reference materials.
Best Practice Gaps
During the analysis phase, Working Group 7 documented several gaps that are being
documented for future CSRIC consideration.
Best Practice Creation Guide
The development and editing of Best Practices for the purpose of having the greatest
value for industry should be done in a tightly controlled and constant manner. The
mishandling of a Network Type, Industry Role, Status, or Keyword can overinflate or
devalue the Best Practice resulting in it not being widely adopted by industry. This can
also lead to confusion as to why a particular Best Practice has or has not been adopted.
For example, several Best Practices that Working Group 7 analyzed using the definitions
7
CSRIC III Working Group 8 – E9-1-1 Best Practices, Final Report – Part 1, Appendix 1, page 19 of
112, Non-Best Practice recommendations, June 2012.
Page 14 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
provided in Appendix 2 led to addition or deletion of supporting elements such as
Network Types or Industry Roles, expanding or reducing their scope. Working Group 7
concluded that with Working Group members changing with every CSRIC, if a Best
Practice creation guide existed outlining the necessary and standard steps when creating
or editing Best Practices, the overall quality and accuracy would improve. Working
Group 7, as well as other Working Groups, is dependent on the independent knowledge
of team members to locate process and definition documents which leads to
inconsistency in the process. In section 4.3 of this report, Working Group 7 recommends
a solution to this process gap to ensure references to definition documents are included
for future CSRIC Working Groups.
Best Practice Overlap
Working Group 7 considered that there is ongoing risk that multiple Working Groups
may unintentionally choose to edit the same Best Practices, or create similar Best
Practices in parallel. Uncoordinated changes between Working Groups may come into
conflict within various final reports. The overlap and conflict issues appear when
Working Groups pull overlapping lists of Best Practices using the same keywords, or
active Working Groups plan to cite Best Practices that are being modified by another
Working Group leading to duplicated efforts and conflicts.
For Purchase Documents
Working Group 7 believes that Best Practices should not contain references or advertise
documents that a user must pay for as a condition of implementing the Best Practice.
Working Group 7 has made every effort to move occurrences of pay-for documents to
the reference section and redefine as examples of available documents. However, there
remain many Best Practices that were out of scope for Working Group 7 that still contain
these references.
Non-Core Best Practices
Working Group 7 reviewed a number of Best Practices that did not clearly support the
underlying theme of addressing reliability, security, or interoperability issues. These
non-core Best Practices should be actively searched out, reviewed, and deleted if
necessary. In one example, Working Group 7 concluded the Best Practice appeared to be
sales related or setting of customer expectations and provided no real guidance to
industry.
Page 15 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Recommendations
1. Working Group 7 recommends Best Practice edits outlined in Appendix 1 of this final
report should be adopted and approved by CSRIC IV Council. Following approval, the
FCC should incorporate the modified Best Practices into production online websites for
general use of industry.
2. Working Group 7 recommends that the FCC establish a Best Practice clearing house
function in all future CSRIC’s. This clearing house will ensure multiple Working
Groups are not modifying the same Best Practices preventing duplication of effort and
conflicting final reports. The clearing house should be used too as a resource for
Working Groups to ensure all supporting elements of a Best Practice have been properly
addressed to avoid any delays in their implementation. This clearing house can be part
of the CSRIC or an external industry organization with expertise in Best Practice
structure and design.
3. Working Group 7 recommends that the use of Best Practice taglines be permanently
eliminated and be removed from all remaining Best Practices. Taglines can be removed
either in bulk by the FCC or at the time a Best Practice is modified/reviewed in future
CSRIC activities. Any new Best Practices recommended in the future should not contain
a tagline and, if one is provided, should be removed before being placed in production.
4. Working Group 7 recommends that a future CSRIC be tasked with the creation of a
documented process outlining a consistent and standard process for Best Practice
creation. This document should incorporate the supporting elements of a Best Practice,
standard structure, and standard definitions to be used as a resource by creators/editors of
Best Practices. This document should be made available at the beginning of all future
CSRIC’s to provide Working Group guidance. The FCC may consider consigning this
recommendation to an external party (e.g., ATIS NRSC) experienced in the creation and
structure of Best Practices.
5. Working Group 7 recommends that the FCC promote the process used to develop these
Best Practices as part of a Best Practices education effort. This educational effort could
incorporate a discussion on how the telecommunications industry utilizes Best Practices
in their operational environment.
6. Working Group 7 recommends that a future CSRIC address the issue of pay-for
documents referenced in Best Practice verbiage. A review of all remaining Best
Practices should be scheduled with the goal of moving pay-for documents to the
reference section of Best Practices as examples. Use of Best Practices should not be
contingent on the purchase of a specific document. The FCC may consider consigning
this recommendation to an external party (e.g., ATIS NRSC) experienced in the creation
and structure of Best Practices.
7. Working Group 7 recommends that a future CSRIC consider reviewing all Best Practices
to identify those that do not meet the core definition of clearly supporting the reliability,
security, or interoperability of the communication network. Once identified, consider
Page 16 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
targeting these non-core Best Practices for removal.
8. Working Group 7 recommends that a future CSRIC consider chartering a Working
Group to revisit all the Best Practices that deal with locating buried facilities and
reconcile those with current 811 programs, including suggestions for collaboration with
other industries.
Page 17 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
5 Conclusions
Best Practices are guidelines for industry that are the aggregated experiences of many experts
who, through their use, have demonstrated a high level of benefit in the reliability, security, or
interoperability of the nation’s communications networks. Best Practices are not intended to be
applicable in all situations; however, corporations should regularly review Best Practices and
consider adoption into their individual organizations.
The continued periodic review of Best Practices by experts for relevance, content, and accuracy
is paramount for providing the highest level of value to the industry. Best Practices should
never be restrictive in a manner that requires the purchase of additional documents in order to
fully implement the practice. These types of restrictions dilute the overall value of Best
Practices and their adoption by industry. Every communications organization will benefit from
the evaluation of Best Practices even if resources do not permit their adoption. The ability to
develop alternatives to voluntary Best Practices that are tailored to the individual organization is
an important part of what makes Best Practices so valuable.
Based on the efforts of Working Group 7 several recommendations have been presented in this
report that improve on Best Practices and the Best Practice process. Ongoing creation and
periodic expert reviews should be held to the highest standards possible to ensure the greatest
value to industry. Consistency in Best Practice creation and editing guidelines are paramount to
their continued adoption. Best Practices that do not measure up to these strict quality guidelines
should be reconsidered, modified if possible, or deleted if necessary.
In this final report, Working Group 7 performed the following:
 Reviewed over 470 Best Practices and provided edits to modernize and refresh based on
changes in technology, practices, or observed reliability trends.
 Created four new Best Practices to address new classes of problems or to divide existing
Best Practices into multiple individually focused Best Practices.
 Updated one new NRSC recommended Best Practice with supporting elements for
approval.
 Recommended the deletion of 22 Best Practices found to be no longer relevant or
needed.
 Developed recommendations and proposals intended to provide ongoing guidance to
future CSRICs and external parties on maintaining a quality process and consistency in
the Best Practice process.
Page 18 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
6 Appendix 1 – Best Practice Recommendations
CSRIC IV CSRIC IV
Best
Best (New/Changed/
Practice
Practice CSRIC IV Best Practice CSRIC IV BP Reference/Comments Unchanged/
Status
Number Deleted)
BEST PRACTICES - NEW
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): Cable, Internet, Satellite,
Managers should utilize Transfer Switch Equipment that Wireless, Wireline
conforms to industry standards.
Industry Role(s): Property Manager, Network
Operator, Service Provider
WG7-1-2 Keywords(s): Buildings, Network Design, Important New
Network Operations, Power, Procedures
Reference(s): Add:
http://www.ul.com/global/eng/pages/solutions/stan
dards/accessstandards/
Network Operators, Equipment Suppliers and Property Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
Managers should consider marking or modifying copper Satellite Wireless, Wireline
bars and cable to deter theft, to make them easier to identify
at scrap yards, and/or to reduce their value. Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operators,
Equipment Suppliers, Property Managers
Keywords(s): Add: Facilities Transport,
WG7-1-3 Hardware, Power, Physical Security Management Important New
Reference(s): Add: This may include stamping
copper ground bars with “Registered Property”
and “Recycling Prohibited”, tinning copper ground
bars or coating them with cold galvanizing spray,
and marking cable with identifying markings.
Page 19 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
CSRIC IV CSRIC IV
Best
Best (New/Changed/
Practice
Practice CSRIC IV Best Practice CSRIC IV BP Reference/Comments Unchanged/
Status
Number Deleted)
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Cable, Internet, Satellite,
Property Managers should utilize a UL standard for Wireless, Wireline
Transfer Switch Equipment.
Industry Role(s): Property Manager, Network
Operator, Service Provider, Public Safety
Keywords(s): Buildings, Network Design,
WG7-1-4 Network Operations, Power, Procedures Important New
Reference(s):
http://www.ul.com/global/eng/pages/solutions/stan
dards/accessstandards/
Status: New
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
Property Managers should mechanically and electrically Satellite, Wireless, Wireline
interlock transfer breaker systems when they are utilized.
Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager,
Network Operator, Service Provider, Public Safety
Highly
WG7-1-5 Keywords(s): Add: Buildings, Network Design, New
Important
Network Operations, Power, Procedures
Reference(s): No Change
Status: New
Page 20 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
CSRIC IV CSRIC IV
Best
Best (New/Changed/
Practice
Practice CSRIC IV Best Practice CSRIC IV BP Reference/Comments Unchanged/
Status
Number Deleted)
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
Property Managers should verify that protector size does Satellite, Wireless, Wireline
not exceed cable rated current capacity.
Industry Role(s): Property Manager, Network
Operator, Service Provider, Public Safety
WG7-1-6 Keywords(s): Fire, Hardware, Network Important New
Operations, Power
Reference(s): No Change
Status: New
Page 21 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
BEST PRACTICES - DELETIONS
For the deployment of Residential Internet Access Service, Delete BP:
Broadband Network Operators should select, implement This Best Practice is not in scope as far as
and locate equipment within the operators architecture to Security, Reliability or Interoperability is Highly
9-7-0817 Delete
provide residential internet access to the most users where concerned. Important
economically and technically feasible.
For the deployment of Residential Internet Access Service, Delete BP:
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment This Best Practice is not in scope as far as
Suppliers should design, build, and operate broadband Security, Reliability or Interoperability is
networks considering performance aspects of the data concerned. This is performance related and more Highly
9-9-0823 Delete
facilities employed, such as: packet loss ratio, Bit Error appropriate for service level agreements with Important
Ratio, latency, and compression, where feasible. users.
Specified Rate Services: Service Providers should make Delete BP:
available meaningful information about expected This BP appears to be sales/setting customer
performance with respect to upstream and downstream expectations, not Cyber Security
9-8-0811 throughput and any limitations of the service. Specified rate Important Delete
services (such as those covered by QoS or similar systems)
should be handled by an SLA between the parties.
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Delete BP:
using a team to quickly determine appropriate actions both Best Practice is too vague, does not recommend
pro-active and re-active to address potential or real threats. specific action that would be of value for Network
Highly
9-7-1025 Operators or Service Providers. Believe this Delete
Important
function would be integral to any security process
or procedure.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Delete BP:
Suppliers should establish and enforce a policy that requires Best Practice 9-7-5021 covers access procedures
all individuals to properly display company identification more broadly. Delete this BP and added a brief
9-6-5023 (e.g., photo ID, visitor badge) while on company property. note to 9-7-5021 stating, “Processes should Important Delete
Individuals not properly displaying a badge should be include challenging non-badged personnel."
challenged and/or reported to security.
Page 22 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Delete BP:
Suppliers should use lessons learned from restoration This thought is captured in BP 9-9-5227 which has
Highly
9-6-5253 efforts to update recovery plans for transponder loss, more details and useful reference Delete
Important
satellite payload failure and satellite failure.
During restoration efforts, Network Operators and Service Delete BP:
Providers should not permit unsecured wireless access This Best Practice was combined with 9-6-5172
9-6-5254 points for the distribution of critical data or operating Important Delete
system upgrades.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Delete BP:
Suppliers and Property Managers should provide and This Best Practice was combined with 9-7-5114
reinforce as appropriate mail screening procedures to
9-7-5115 Important Delete
relevant employees and contractors to increase attention to
security.
Network Operators should maintain and control access to Delete BP:
accurate location information of critical network facilities This Best Practice is a duplicate of 9-7-5022.
Highly
9-7-5123 in order to identify physical locations hosting critical Delete
Important
infrastructure assets.
Network Operators, Service Providers who are tenants in Delete BP:
multi-tenant facilities (e.g., telecom hotels) should This Best Practice was combined with 9-7-5236
9-7-5238 coordinate security and restoration efforts with the Property and should be deleted. Important Delete
Manager.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Delete BP:
Suppliers should evaluate the vulnerability of storage This Best Practice is duplicative of 9-7-5030 and
9-7-5262 Important Delete
locations in an effort to protect critical spares. should be deleted.
Antenna Structure Sharing: Network Operators and Delete BP:
Property Managers should consider agreements to share in- Not related to reliability, security, or
building cellular antenna infrastructure between multiple interoperability issue.
9-7-0468 Important Delete
service providers in order to make it more feasible to
deploy in-building systems.
Page 23 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Reporting and Tracking Outages: Network Operators, Delete BP:
Service Providers and Equipment Suppliers should adopt an Outage Reporting is mandatory and does not
Highly
9-7-0583 industry uniform method of reporting and tracking require a BP to comply. Delete
Important
significant service outages.
Network Technician Training: Network Operator and Delete BP:
Service Provider network technicians should be trained in This Best Practice was combined with 9-5-0511.
(1) detection of conditions requiring intervention, (2) Highly
9-7-0597 Delete
escalation procedures, and (3) manual recovery techniques. Important
Disaster Recovery: Equipment Suppliers should consider Delete BP:
providing a "Disaster Recovery Services Checklist" to all of This Best Practice was combined with 9-6-1044.
the Service Providers they support. The checklist would Highly
9-6-1041 Delete
assist the Service Provider in identifying equipment needs Important
and professional services during an event.
Access Control Exceptions: Network Operators, Service Delete BP:
Providers, Property Managers, and Equipment Suppliers This Best Practice has been combined with 9-6-
should establish policies and procedures related to access 5021. Highly
9-7-5028 Delete
control to provide exception access (e.g., emergency repair Important
or response, forgotten credential, etc.).
Employee Training: Network Operators, Service Delete BP:
Providers, Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers Duplicate of modified BP 9-5-0511 as well as
should provide appropriate training and periodic refresher covered in several other BPs.
9-7-0434 Important Delete
courses for their employees.
Network Operators should take into consideration Delete BP:
fundamental technology differences when operating This Best Practice is common sense versus solving
multiple RF technologies in an existing system. Radio a problem or class of problems.
Frequency Interference (RFI) sources (e.g.,
9-7-0479 Highly
intermodulation, out of band emissions, receiver overload), Delete
Important
link budgets, and performance metrics (e.g., data rates,
latency, capacity) should be evaluated.
Page 24 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Service Providers should make available meaningful Delete BP:
information about expected performance with respect to This Best Practice doesn’t support reliability,
upstream and downstream throughput and any limitations security, or interoperability and seems to be more
of the service; best effort services up to or unspecified bit sales or marketing based. Important
9-6-0810 Delete
rate services should be specified as such in a clearly
identifiable manner.
Network Operators should ensure that equipment is Delete BP:
installed in accordance with equipment suppliers' stated This Best Practice combined with 9-7-0815 and
Important
9-7-0460 environmental specifications. deleted as a duplicate. Delete
Standard Cable Markings: Network Operators should use Delete BP:
9-7-0728 industry standard markings for outside plant cables. This Best Practice combined with 9-7-0706 and
Important Delete
deleted as a duplicate.
One-Call Center Legislation: Network Operators should Delete BP:
implement internal processes needed to support the One- This Best Practice combined with 9-7-0725 and
9-7-0740
Call Notification legislation. deleted as a duplicate. Important Delete
Page 25 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
BEST PRACTICES - REVISIONS
Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should ensure that appropriate operations
personnel involved in the direct operation, maintenance, Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Suppliers,
provisioning, security, troubleshooting, repair, and support Public Safety
of network elements are provided periodic training.
Keywords(s): Add: Essential Services, Network
Elements, Technical Support, Emergency
Highly
9-5-0511 Preparedness Changed
Important
Delete: Industry Cooperation, Network
Interoperability
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should, when Network Types(s): No Change
available, utilize a device management architecture that
provides a single interface with access to alarms and Industry Role(s): No Change
monitoring information from all critical network elements.
Keywords(s): Add: Security Systems
Reference(s): Examples of device management Highly
9-5-0514 Changed
architectures that support multiple platforms are Important
Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) and Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP).
Status: No Change
Page 26 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should operate an Network Types(s): No Change
information-only route database containing the routing
advertisement source and cannot be changed by peers, Industry Role(s): No Change
customers, and other users, should be highly secure, and
Highly
should not affect or impact the actual routing table. Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
9-5-0524 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should operate a Network Types(s): No Change
route registry database of all the routes advertised by their
network with the source of that advertisement, with which Industry Role(s): No Change
outside entities can communicate with.
Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
Add: Network Provisioning
Highly
9-5-0526 Changed
Reference(s): This database might be used as the Important
source for interface configurations as well as
troubleshooting problems. These outside entities
may be central, regional, or global in nature.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should require staff to use grounding straps when working
with equipment where appropriate. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change
9-5-0531 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 27 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider developing and implementing cable
labeling standards. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Transport Facilities
9-7-0411 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete current reference
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should, where appropriate, have a documented back-out
plan as part of a Method of Procedure (MOP) for scheduled Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and unscheduled maintenance activities.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-9-0418 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators and Service Providers should design Network Types(s): No Change
and capacity-manage EMSs (Element Management
Systems) and OSSs (Operational Support Systems) to Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operators
accommodate changes in network element capacity.
Keywords(s): Delete: Pandemic Highly
9-7-0419 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should Network Types(s): No Change
periodically measure EMS (Element Management System),
NMS (Network Management System) and OSS Industry Role(s): Add: Service Providers
(Operational Support System) performance using a
benchmark or applicable requirements to verify that internal Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0420 Changed
or vendor performance objectives are being met. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 28 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
establishing a customer advocacy function to take part in
the development and scheduling of network change activity Industry Role(s): No Change
in order to minimize impact.
Keywords(s): Delete: Policy
Highly
9-9-0447 Add: Liaison Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete statement “See BP 0600”
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should, where feasible, provide a Network Types(s): No Change
memory management capability to reconfigure or expand
memory without impacting stable calls or other critical Industry Role(s): No Change
processes (e.g., billing).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0448 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators and Government should cooperate on Network Types(s): No Change
zoning issues that affect reliability of communication
networks serving the public good. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Essential Services
9-7-0464 Reference(s): Add: Examples: noise from Important Changed
emergency backup power generators, aesthetics of
tower placement, public safety and health
concerns.
Status: No Change
Page 29 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Public Safety should account for Network Types(s): No Change
the effects of environmental changes on attenuation,
shadowing, and multipath (e.g., new buildings, tree growth, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
construction materials) during initial design and through
periodic reviews of cell site coverage. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0465 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators should take into account link budget Network Types(s): No Change
impacts due to propagation differences between various
frequencies when planning network coverage. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0466 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change.
Status: No Change
Network Operators should give consideration to the degree Network Types(s): No Change
of balance between RF (Radio Frequency) channels on
uplinks and downlinks, for both control and traffic for air Industry Role(s): No Change
interface reliability.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0467 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators should have an ongoing RF (Radio Network Types(s): No Change
Frequency) performance improvement process to reduce air
interface issues related to blocks, drops, and access failures. Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
9-7-0486 Changed
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Important
Reference(s): No Change
Page 30 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Property Managers should have Network Types(s): No Change
procedures in place to identify and correct degradations in
cell site performance resulting from defects in feedlines and Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager
antennas (e.g., moisture, vandalism, kinking).
Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation Highly
9-7-0487 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet/Data,
should consider registering critical circuits with Telecom Satellite, Wireline
Service Priority (TSP).
Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Delete remark “Also, see BP
9-7-0488 Important Changed
0587”
Add: http://www.dhs.gov/telecommunications-
service-priority-tsp
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/services/priority-
services/tsp.html
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider provisions in labor
contracts to provide for cooperation between union and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
non-union personnel during disaster recovery situations.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0489 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 31 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consult NFPA (National Fire Prevention
Association) Standards for guidance in the design of fire Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
suppression systems, and, when building code regulations
require sprinkler systems, should seek an exemption for the Keywords(s): No Change
use of non-destructive systems.
Reference(s): Modify: Communications
equipment can be easily damaged by water from
9-7-0490 Important Changed
sprinkler systems.
Reference NFPA 75 and 76. When zoning
regulations require sprinkler systems, an
exemption should be sought for the use of non-
destructive systems.
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should identify key areas and Network Types(s): No Change
establish and use metrics to measure progress in improving
quality, reliability, and security during product development Industry Role(s): No Change
and field life cycle.
Keywords(s): Delete: Cybersecurity
9-7-0565 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 32 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Government, Network Operators and Service Providers of Network Types(s): No Change
critical services to National Security and Emergency
Preparedness (NS/EP) users should be familiar with the Industry Role(s): No Change
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) program and
support / promote it as applicable. Keywords(s): Add: Public Safety Service
Reference(s): Replace: Reference: The TSP
Program is a FCC program used to identify and
prioritize telecommunication services that support
NSEP missions. The TSP Program also provides a
legal means for the telecommunications industry to
provide preferential treatment to services enrolled
9-9-0587 Important Changed
in the program. More information on the TSP
Program can be obtained from the National
Communications System (NCS) Office of Priority
Telecommunications, Manager National
Communications System, Attn: OPT/N3, 701
South Courthouse Road, Arlington, Virginia
22204-2198, on telephone 703-607-4932 or at
http://www.dhs.gov/telecommunications-service-
priority-tsp
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should develop and update training Network Types(s): No Change
for their products with a clear understanding of customer
needs and human factors. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
9-7-0564 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 33 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Public Safety and Government should use 911 as the Network Types(s): Add: Satellite
standard access code for emergency services (e.g., PSAP,
law enforcement, fire, EMS, hazardous materials). Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-7-0582 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers, Network Operators and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Government representatives should work
together to support appropriate industry and international Industry Role(s): No Change
organizations to develop and implement NS/EP standards in
networks. Keywords(s): No Change
9-9-0584 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 34 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should provide awareness training that stresses
the services impact of network failure, the risks of various Industry Role(s): No Change
levels of threatening conditions and the roles components
play in the overall architecture. Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Modify:
Reference: Training should be provided for
personnel involved in the direct operation,
maintenance, provisioning, security and support of
network elements. A successful program should
educate its target audience on the technology, its Highly
9-7-0588 Changed
benefits and risks, and the magnitude of traffic Important
carried. The training might include the
functionality and the network impact of failure of
active and standby (protect) equipment in
processors, interfaces, peripheral power supplies,
and other related components, and the
identification of active and standby (protect) units.
Special emphasis should focus on the systematic
processes for trouble isolation and repair.
Status: No Change
Page 35 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should establish a minimum set of
work experience and training courses which must be Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
completed before personnel may be assigned to perform
maintenance activities on production network elements, Keywords(s): No Change
especially when new technology is introduced in the
network. Reference(s): Modify:
References: This training should reinforce the
importance of following procedures at all times
Highly
9-7-0589 and emphasize the steps required to successfully Changed
Important
detect problems and to isolate the problem
systematically and quickly without causing further
system degradation. Lack of troubleshooting
experience and proper training in trouble detection
and isolation usually prolongs the trouble detection
and isolation process.
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide Network Types(s): No Change
duplicated, non-co-located maintenance administration,
surveillance and support for network elements. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-9-0592 Reference(s): Add: Monitoring and Changed
Important
administration locations should be minimized to
provide consistency of operations and overall
management.
Status: No Change
Page 36 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should follow Network Types(s): No Change
industry guidelines for validating SS7 link diversity, which
should be performed at a minimum of twice a year, and at Industry Role(s): No Change
least one of those validations should include a physical
validation of equipment compared to the recorded Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0594 Changed
documentation of diversity. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should be aware of the dynamic nature of peak traffic
periods and should consider scheduling potentially service- Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
affecting procedures (e.g., maintenance, high risk
procedures, growth activities) so as to minimize the impact Keywords(s): Add: Training and Awareness Highly
9-9-0595 Changed
on end-user services. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should carefully Network Types(s): No Change
review all re-home procedures, undertake pre-planning
before execution, and ensure that re-home procedures are Industry Role(s): No Change
carefully followed.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0596 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
and document a process to plan, test, evaluate and
implement major change activities in their network. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0600 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 37 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should restrict Network Types(s): No Change
commands available to technicians to ensure authorized
access and use, and maintain, manage and protect an audit Industry Role(s): No Change
trail.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning,
9-9-0601 Supervision Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
procedures to reactivate alarms after provisioning or
maintenance activities (when alarms are typically Industry Role(s): No Change
deactivated).
Keywords(s): Add: Training and Awareness
9-9-0602 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should assess the Network Types(s): No Change
synchronization needs of the network elements and
interfaces that comprise their networks to develop and Industry Role(s): No Change
maintain a detailed synchronization plan.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Elements, Network
Highly
9-9-0605 Provisioning Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 38 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Inter-Provider Fault Isolation: Network Operators and Network Types(s): No Change
Service Providers should ensure that bilateral technical
agreements between interconnecting networks address the Industry Role(s): No Change
issue of inter-provider fault isolation.
Keywords(s): Add: Policy Highly
9-7-0607 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should utilize Network Types(s): No Change
network surveillance and monitoring to keep overflow
traffic conditions from adversely affecting networks. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning Highly
9-9-0608 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide Network Types(s): No Change
and maintain the contact information for mutual aid
coordination for inclusion in mutual aid processes. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-7-0609 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete: See also
http://www.ncs.gov/ncc/nccmaa/nccmaa_toc.html)
Status: No Change
Page 39 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers and Service Providers should provide Network Types(s): No Change
secure electronic distribution of documentation and
software, where feasible. Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
Keywords(s): Add: Software Highly
9-7-0611 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators and Service Providers should verify Network Types(s): No Change
both local and remote alarms and remote network element
maintenance access on all new critical equipment installed Industry Role(s): No Change
in the network, before it is placed into service.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Elements Highly
9-9-0612 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should position the equipment designation
information (e.g., location, labels, RFID tags) so that they Industry Role(s): No Change
are securely affixed and not on removable parts.
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Add: The equipment designation
9-7-0614 Important Changed
should not be placed on removable parts such as
covers, panels, doors, or vents that can be removed
and mistakenly installed on a different network
element.
Status: No Change
Page 40 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should verify complex configuration changes before
committing them and test after the change to ensure the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
appropriate and expected results.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0615 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure Network Types(s): No Change
that routing controls are implemented and managed to
prevent adverse routing conditions. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning
Highly
9-9-0617 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Modify link to: http://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc1918
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
mutually agreed upon reliability thresholds with Equipment
Suppliers for new hardware (e.g., routers, switches, call Industry Role(s): No Change
servers, signaling servers) brought into service on the
network. Keywords(s): Add: Procedures, Network
Highly
9-7-0618 Provisioning Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 41 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
abandoning and / or removing existing cable that does not
meet New Equipment Building System (NEBS) standards, Industry Role(s): No Change
if it is economically feasible and safe to do so.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0621 Important Changed
Reference(s): Add:
http://192.4.253.70/services/testing/nebs/index.htm
l
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers using Valve Network Types(s): No Change
Regulated Lead Acid (VRLA) batteries should perform
annual maintenance by performing a discharge test or by Industry Role(s): No Change
using an ohmic test instrument.
Keywords(s): Add: Procedure, Fire
Reference(s): Modify: The aging properties of
these batteries can lead to thermal runaway that
may cause a fire. See GR-4228, VRLA Battery
String Certification Levels Based on Requirements
9-7-0623 for Safety and Performance and http://telecom- Important Changed
info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs.cgi?DOCUMENT=gr-
4228&KEYWORDS=&TITLE=&ID=097222093
SEARCH
Delete: http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs2.pl?ID=170086171&page=home)
Status: No Change
Page 42 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers are encouraged to establish rectifier case history
files, by equipment category to facilitate decisions to Industry Role(s): No Change
replace equipment with more efficient equipment based on
failure trends. Keywords(s): Add: Procedures, Documentation,
Network Elements, Network Operations, Network Highly
9-7-0624 Changed
Provisioning Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider placing electric utility
transformers external to buildings. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0625 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should regularly inspect building
mechanical equipment (e.g., air handling fans, air Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
compressors, pumps).
Keywords(s): Add: Buildings, Procedures
9-7-0626 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 43 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should exercise, service, and calibrate
AC circuit breakers per manufacturers' recommendations. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
9-7-0627 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should develop Network Types(s): No Change
and implement defined procedures for removal of unused
equipment and cable (e.g., cable mining) if it is Industry Role(s): No Change
economically feasible and safe to do so.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0628 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should implement a training program for
contractors working in critical equipment locations to Industry Role(s): No Change
ensure they understand the need to protect the continuity of
service and all fire safety requirements applicable to the Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0629 Changed
facility. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should develop and
execute standard Methods of Procedure (MOP) for all Industry Role(s): No Change
vendor work in or external to equipment locations with
emphasis on service continuity and safety precautions. Keywords(s): Add: Fire, Training and Awareness Highly
9-9-0630 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 44 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Property Managers should develop a
comprehensive Site Management and/or Building Industry Role(s): No Change
Certification Program to ensure that critical equipment
locations have carefully documented procedures to ensure Keywords(s): Add: Buildings, Training and
fire safety. Awareness
9-7-0631 Reference(s): Add: These procedures should Important Changed
include, among other things, guidance for the safe
operation of all electrical appliances at this facility,
including space heaters which are a frequent
source of fires.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers together with the Power Company
should verify that aerial power lines are not in conflict with Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
hazards that could produce a loss of service during high
winds or icy conditions. Keywords(s): Add: Network Design, Network
Operations, Network Provisioning
9-7-0634 Important Changed
Delete: Buildings
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should ensure proper air filtration.
Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations,
9-7-0640 Procedures Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 45 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should ensure critical network facilities
have appropriate fire detection and alarm systems. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-9-0649 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should place strong emphasis on
activities related to the operation of power systems (e.g., Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
maintenance procedures, alarm system operation, response
procedures, and training). Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-7-0650 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider providing diversity
within power supply and distribution systems so that a Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
single point of failure (SPOF) is not catastrophic in critical
network locations. Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations
Highly
9-7-0651 Changed
Reference(s): Add: For large battery plants in Important
critical offices, dual AC feeds should be
considered.
Status: Changed
Page 46 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should adhere to
applicable power engineering design standards. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations,
Network Provisioning
Delete: Building
Reference(s): Modify:
See http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs2.pl?ID=170086171&page=home, Highly
9-7-0652 Changed
(Delete: and) http://www.atis.org/docstore, and Important
Add: Telcordia GR-513-CORE (Power - LSSGR
section 13), Telcordia GR-63-CORE (NEBS),
Telcordia GR-295-CORE (Isolated Ground
Planes), Telcordia GR-1089-CORE
(Electromagnetic Compatibility), and ATIS-
0600311.2007 (DC Power Systems -
Telecommunications Environment Protection).
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should retain complete control
concerning when to transfer from the electric utility and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
operate standby generators.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0653 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 47 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should generally avoid entering into power
curtailment or load shedding contracts with electric utilities. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-0654 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should establish a requirement for power conditioning,
monitoring and protection for sensitive equipment. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Highly
9-9-0656 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should coordinate scheduled power
generator tests with all building occupants to avoid Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
interruptions.
Keywords(s): Add: Documentation
9-9-0663 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide Network Types(s): No Change
some method to detect/prevent thermal runaway on
rectifiers when valve regulated batteries are used. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Network Design, Procedures
9-7-0673 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 48 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should, for new installations, consider using
multiple small battery plants in place of single very large Industry Role(s): No Change
plants, and consider using multiple battery strings in each
plant. Keywords(s): Add: Network Design, Procedures,
9-7-0675 Hardware Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should provide diverse power feeds for all
redundant links (e.g., SS7, BITS clocks) and any Industry Role(s): No Change
components identified as critical single points of failure
(SPOF) in the network. Keywords(s): Add: Network Elements Critically
9-9-0679 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
provide protective covers on vulnerable circuit breakers Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
which power critical equipment.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0680 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 49 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
ensure that power wire, cable, and signaling cables used in Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
communications locations meet Network Equipment
Building Systems (NEBS) compliance. Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning
9-7-0682 Important Changed
Reference(s): Add:
http://192.4.253.70/services/testing/nebs/index.htm
l
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Network Types(s): No Change
Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers should not mix
Direct Current (DC) power cables, Alternating Current Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager, Public
(AC) power cables and telecommunications cables Safety
wherever possible.
9-7-0683 Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Network Types(s): No Change
and Public Safety should deploy hardware in accordance
with equipment suppliers’ stated environmental Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider,
specifications. Property Manager, Public Safety
9-7-0815 Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 50 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Service Providers that deploy Internet Access Service in a Network Types(s): No Change
shared media environment should design Broadband
systems that provide appropriate privacy and access Industry Role(s): No Change
restriction to the data packet information.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0816 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network operators and service Providers that deploy Network Types(s): No Change
Internet Access Service should deploy network equipment
that report alarms. Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider,
Government
Highly
9-7-0818 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers, Network Operators and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should periodically evaluate the need for and
feasibility of providing back up power at cell sites and Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager and
broadband network equipment, at remote locations where Service Provider
economically and technically practical taking into
Highly
9-9-0819 consideration the criticality of the site or location, as well as Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
local zoning laws, statutes, and contractual obligations.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 51 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should deploy Network Types(s): No Change
networks and services in a manner that mitigates the effects
of harmful interference from other sources, and mitigates Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
harmful interference into other services.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0820 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should coordinate to ensure that network
deployment and equipment installation, including Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers,
equipment moves, adds or changes (MACs), do not Service Providers
physically impair the operation of other collocated
Highly
9-7-0821 communications networks/equipment. Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network operators and service providers should incorporate Network Types(s): No Change
multilevel security schemes for network data integrity in the
network design, as applicable, to prevent user traffic from Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
interfering with network operations, administration, and
management. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0822 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 52 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider connector choices and color
coding to prevent inappropriate combinations of cables. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Network Element Highly
9-8-0472 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators should design their SS7 network Network Types(s): Add: Wireless
components and interfaces consistent with industry base
security guidelines to reduce the risk of potentially service Industry Role(s): No Change
affecting security compromises of the signaling networks
supporting the public telephone network. Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Add: See NIIF Reference
document Part 3, Appendix I. This document
9-8-0551 provides guidance for desirable security features Important Changed
for any network element (call agent, feature server,
soft switch, cross connect, gateway, database). It
identifies security functionality, which should be
in place by design, device or procedure. It includes
an assessment framework series of checklists.
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide Network Types(s): No Change
physical diversity on critical inter-office and wireless
backhaul routes when justified by a risk or value analysis. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness Highly
9-8-0731 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 53 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
document and communicate their installation and Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Suppliers,
maintenance guidelines (e.g., MOP) and the expectation of Public Safety
compliance by all involved parties.
9-8-0755 Keywords(s): Add: Supervision Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should detect Network Types(s): No Change
transport simplex events and restore the duplex protective
path expeditiously by executing appropriate incident Industry Role(s): No Change
response and escalation processes.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-8-0782 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should utilize appropriate fiber/cable management
equipment or racking systems to provide cable strain relief Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and ensure that bend radius is maintained to avoid micro-
bends (e.g., pinched fibers). Keywords(s): Add: Documentation, Hardware,
9-8-0784 Contractors and Vendors. Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 54 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
secured remote access to critical network management
systems for network management personnel working from Industry Role(s): No Change
distributed locations (e.g., back-up facility, home) in the
event of a situation where the NOC cannot be staffed (e.g., Keywords(s): Add: Information Protection,
Critically
9-8-0785 pandemic). Procedures, Network Operations Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should consider the use of fixed alternate fuel
generators (e.g., natural gas) connected to public utility Industry Role(s): No Change
supplies to reduce the strain on refueling.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-8-0787 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Personal Protective Equipment: Network Operators, Network Types(s): No Change
Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers and Public Safety
should consider providing personal protective equipment Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
(PPE) for infection control (e.g., masks, disposable gloves,
and sanitizers) in locations where multiple employees are Keywords(s): Add: Public Safety and
9-8-0790 located. Government Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 55 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Government, and Public Safety should consider
providing personnel training in the use of personal Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety,
protective equipment (PPE) specific to a pandemic or other Government
crisis situations and the employee's particular job.
9-8-0791 Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider modifying attendance
guidelines during a pandemic, or other crisis situations. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change
9-8-0792 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should, as part of business continuity planning,
identify employees that can perform their tasks from Industry Role(s): No Change
alternate locations and consider provisions for enabling
them to do so. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-8-0793 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 56 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should, as part of business continuity planning,
provide for elevated /increased utilization of remote access Industry Role(s): No Change
capabilities for telecommuting purposes by employees
during a pandemic, or other crisis situations. Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
9-8-0794 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should as part of business continuity planning,
plan for elevated/increased utilization of virtual Industry Role(s): No Change
collaboration and remote meetings capabilities during
pandemics or other crisis situations. Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity Highly
9-8-0795 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should, as part of business continuity planning,
consider developing guidelines for the deferral of specific Industry Role(s): No Change
maintenance or provisioning activities during certain
situations (e.g., pandemic, holiday, National Special Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
9-8-0796 Important Changed
Security Event).
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider, as part of business
continuity/disaster recovery, alternate transportation and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
delivery methods for equipment, spares, and personal
protective equipment to prepare for situations where Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
9-8-0798 Important Changed
transportation and delivery may be delayed (e.g., pandemic,
other crisis situations). Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 57 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Service Providers, Network Operators and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should periodically evaluate the need for and
feasibility of providing back up power at cell sites and Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager and
broadband network equipment, at remote locations where Service Provider
economically and technically practical taking into
Highly
9-8-0799 consideration the criticality of the site or location, as well as Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
local zoning laws, statutes, and contractual obligations.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should consider providing a "Disaster Network Types(s): No Change
Recovery Services Checklist" to all of the Service Providers
they support to assist the Service Provider in identifying Industry Role(s): No Change
equipment needs and professional services during an event.
Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation and
9-6-1044 Materials Movement. Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Government should work together to identify
criteria for developing procedures to handle network Industry Role(s): No Change
elements affected by nuclear attack or nuclear accidents
(e.g., shock wave, Electro-magnetic Pulse (EMP), Thermal, Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-1051 Important Changed
Fallout, fiber darkening of phosphorous based fiber cable).
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 58 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should assess the functionality of network critical systems
during disaster exercises. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-1052 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider establishing a business continuity
executive steering committee (composed of executive Industry Role(s): No Change
managers and business process owners) to ensure executive
support and oversight. Keywords(s): Add: Disaster Recovery, Policy
9-7-1002 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should use the Incident Command System for
incident coordination and control in the emergency Industry Role(s): No Change
operations center and at the incident site.
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Reference(s): Modify:
See the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) http://www.fema.gov/national-incident-
9-7-1008 Important Changed
management-system. See also National Fire
Protection Association Standard 1600.
http://www.nfpa.org/codes-and-
standards/document-information-
pages?mode=code&code=1600 (Free but
requires registration)
Status: No Change
Page 59 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Supplies should, during major disasters, make it Network Types(s): No Change
easy for customers to contact them by providing an
Interactive Voice Response (IVR) option or dedicated Industry Role(s): No Change
contact information.
Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation
9-6-1043 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should develop a process to routinely archive critical
system backups and provide for storage in a secure off-site Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
facility which would provide geographical diversity.
Keywords(s): Add: Software Highly
9-7-1047 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
supplementing media backup storage with full system
restoral media and documented restoration procedures that Industry Role(s): No Change
can be utilized at an alternate hot site, in case of total failure
of the primary service site. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-1048 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers should consider utilizing multiple Network Types(s): No Change
network carriers for internet backbone connectivity if
required to prevent isolation of service nodes. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-1049 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 60 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
alternative carrier/transport methods such as satellite,
microwave or wireless to further reduce point of failures or Industry Role(s): No Change
as hot transport backup facilities.
Keywords(s): Delete: Disaster Recovery Critically
9-7-1050 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should include physical security as an
integral part of the strategic business planning and decision Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
making process to ensure that security risks are properly
identified and appropriately mitigated. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5024 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should include physical security as an integral
part of the merger, acquisition and divestiture process to Industry Role(s): No Change
ensure that security risks are proactively identified and
appropriate plans are developed to facilitate the integration Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5025 Important Changed
and migration of organizational functions (e.g., Due
Diligence investigations, integration of policy and Reference(s): No Change
procedures).
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should consider a strategy
of using technology (e.g., access control, CCTV, sensor Industry Role(s): No Change
technology, person traps, turnstiles) to supplement the
guard force. Keywords(s): Add: Visitors
9-6-5049 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 61 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers utilizing guard services
should have a supervision plan that requires supervisory Industry Role(s): No Change
checks for all posts.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5050 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers utilizing guard services should consider
establishing incentives and recognition programs to Industry Role(s): No Change
increase morale and reduce turnover.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5051 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers of critical network elements should Network Types(s): No Change
document the technical specifications of their electronic
hardware, including characteristics such as tolerance Industry Role(s): No Change
limitations to electromagnetic energy, vibration, voltage
spikes and temperature ranges. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5119 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators responsible for satellite operations Network Types(s): No Change
should maintain access to a back-up or secondary uplink
site to provide tracking, telemetry and control (T.T.&C.) Industry Role(s): Delete: Service Provider
support for all operational communications spacecraft. The
back-up or secondary site must be geographically diverse Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5143 Changed
from the primary uplink facility, active and tested on a Important
regular schedule to insure readiness and timely response. Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: Changed
Page 62 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should maintain a current database of Network Types(s): No Change
all satellite transmit and receive sites (i.e. uplink and
downlink facilities) that are operational and/or support their Industry Role(s): No Change
services and networks.
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Add: The database information
9-6-5144 should list location (i.e. street address, latitude and Important Changed
longitude), service provider/phone number, site
manager contact/phone number, control point if
remotely controlled, and equipment type used at
the site.
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should develop Network Types(s): No Change
and manage Satellite service recovery plans to ensure the
timely restoration of services in the event of transponder Industry Role(s): No Change
loss, payload failure, and satellite failure.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5146 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should ensure that teleworkers have the
equipment and support necessary to secure their computing Industry Role(s): No Change
platforms and systems at an equivalent level of those within
company office facilities (e.g., Security software, firewalls Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5165 Changed
and secure documents storage). Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 63 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should review personnel background information
prior to assignment to sensitive roles, to ensure there are no Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator and
security risks, or risk of compromising processes as they Service Providers
evolve.
Keywords(s): Add: Access Control, Information Highly
9-6-5168 Changed
Protection, Procedures Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish and implement an information
protection process to control and manage the distribution of Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator,
critical R&D documentation and the revisions thereto (e.g., Service Providers
serialize physical and electronic documentation to maintain
Highly
9-6-5169 audit trails). Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should design network equipment to Network Types(s): No Change
reduce the likelihood of malfunction due to failure of the
connected devices (i.e. in order to reduce the potential for Industry Role(s): No Change
cascade failures; software or system damage).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5171 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 64 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should establish policies and
procedures that prevent or reduce workplace violence. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Visitors
9-6-5179 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should design electronic hardware to Network Types(s): Add: Satellite
minimize susceptibility to electrostatic discharge.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5194 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service providers and Equipment Network Types(s): Add: Satellite
Suppliers should keep track of network product
identification (e.g., circuit pack serial number), repair, Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator,
modification and decommissioning records. Service Provider
Highly
9-6-5195 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 65 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Property Managers of multi-tenant facilities should Network Types(s): No Change
maintain crisis management plan(s) for incident resolution
and restoration. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5239 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider restricting, supervising, and/or
prohibiting tours of critical network facilities, restoration Industry Role(s): No Change
sites and operations.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5243 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should perform risk assessment on
significant network changes (e.g., technology upgrades, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
temporary or permanent changes due to restoration efforts).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5248 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should ensure that temporary wireless networks
(e.g., terrestrial microwave, free-space optical, satellite, Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Supplier
point-to-point, multi-point, mesh) used during an incident
are subsequently disabled or secured. Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5255 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 66 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers' senior
management should actively support compliance with Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
established corporate security policies and procedures.
Keywords(s): Add: Security Systems
9-6-5265 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should, in
facilities using automated access control systems, install Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
one mechanical lock to permit key override access to the
space(s) secured by the access control system in the event Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5274 Changed
the system fails in the locked mode. An appropriate Important
procedure should be followed to track and control the keys. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish additional access control
measures that provide two factor identification (e.g., Industry Role(s): No Change
cameras, PIN, biometrics) in conjunction with basic
physical access control procedures at areas of critical Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Highly
9-7-5001 Changed
infrastructure, as appropriate, to adequately protect the Important
assets. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should
establish procedures for access control, exception access, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and identification for all individuals (including visitors,
contractors, and vendors) that provide for the issuing of ID Keywords(s): Add: Training and Awareness Highly
9-7-5021 Changed
badges, sign-in and escorting where appropriate, with Important
challenging of non-badged personnel. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 67 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider establishing a designated
Emergency Operations Center. This center should contain Industry Role(s): No Change
tools for coordination of service restoral including UPS,
alternate means of communications, maps, and documented Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Highly
9-6-1006 Changed
procedures to manage business interruptions and/or Important
disasters. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Property Managers utilizing guard services
should develop a process to quickly disseminate Industry Role(s): No Change
information to all guard posts. This process should be
documented and should clearly establish specific roles and Keywords(s): Add: Supervision Highly
9-6-5054 Changed
responsibilities. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish and maintain (or contract for) a
24/7 emergency call center for internal communications. Industry Role(s): No Change
Ensure staff at this center has access to all documentation
pertinent to emergency response and up to date call lists to Keywords(s): Add: Contractors & Vendors Critically
9-6-5055 Changed
notify appropriate personnel. The number to this call center Important
should be appropriately published so personnel know where Reference(s): No Change
to report information.
Status: No Change
Property Managers should require all tenants to adhere to Network Types(s): No Change
the security standards set for colocation sites.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5069 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 68 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should discourage use of Emergency Power Off
(EPO) switches between the primary battery supplies and Industry Role(s): No Change
the main power distribution board. EPO switches are not
recommended for use in traditional -48V DC battery plants. Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
9-6-5210 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure Network Types(s): No Change
that impacted alarms and monitors associated with critical
utility vaults are operational after a disaster event. Industry Role(s): Delete: Equipment Suppliers
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5235 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should make all employees, contractors, and
others with access to critical infrastructure during Industry Role(s): No Change
restoration, aware of changes to security posture resulting
from the incident, and the need for increased vigilance. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5244 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 69 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
geographic separation of network redundancy during
restoration, and address losses of redundancy and Industry Role(s): Add Service Provider
geographic separation following restoration.
Keywords(s): Add: Hardware, Network
Highly
9-6-5249 Elements, Procedures Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should develop Network Types(s): No Change
an engineering design for critical network elements and
inter-office facilities that addresses diversity, and utilize Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
management systems to provision, track, and maintain and
restore that inter-office and intra-office diversity. Keywords(s): Add: Buildings, Transport
Highly
9-6-5250 Facilities, Network Provisioning, Policy, Power Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should
develop and implement periodic physical inspections and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
maintenance as required for all critical security systems.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5002 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 70 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should
periodically audit compliance with physical security Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
policies and procedures.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5003 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should conduct electronic surveillance
(e.g., CCTV, access control logs, alarm monitoring) at Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
critical access points and preserve the data for investigation.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5005 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should ensure
that access control records are retained in conjunction with Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
company standards.
Keywords(s): Add: Visitors
9-7-5009 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should deploy security measures in
proportion to the criticality of the facility or area being Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
served.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5010 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 71 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should alarm
and monitor critical facility access points to detect intrusion Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
or unsecured access (e.g., doors being propped open).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5011 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers in facilities
where master key systems are used should consider Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
establishing hierarchical key control system(s) (e.g., Master
Key Control systems) with record keeping databases. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5013 Changed
Master Key Control system should be implemented so that Important
keys are distributed only to those with need for access into Reference(s): No Change
the locked space (e.g., perimeter doors, offices, restricted
areas). Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should
establish and maintain inventory control measures to Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
protect all media associated with Master Key Control
(MKC) systems and access control systems (e.g. master Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5014 Changed
keys, key blanks, cards, tokens, fobs). Important
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should periodically conduct reviews to ensure
that proprietary information is protected in accordance with Industry Role(s): No Change
established policies and procedures.
Keywords(s): Add: Cybersecurity
9-7-5018 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 72 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should not permit unsecured wireless access
points for the distribution of data or operating system Industry Role(s): No Change
upgrades during normal operations or system restoration
efforts. Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Highly
9-6-5172 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should ensure
the inclusion of fire stair returns in their physical security Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
designs with consideration that there should be no
uncontrolled re-entry paths into areas of critical Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5185 Changed
infrastructure, where permitted by code. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Property Managers, and Public Safety should
internally identify locations of critical infrastructure for Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers,
emergency planning and security, and protect it as highly Public Safety
sensitive proprietary information.
Highly
9-7-5022 Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 73 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Property Managers, and Public Safety should
include security as an integral part of the facility Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
construction process to ensure that security risks are
proactively identified and appropriate solutions are included Keywords(s): No Change
in the design of the facility.
Reference(s): Add: Where appropriate, this
review may include elements such as facility
location selection, security system design,
configuration of the lobby, limitation of outside
9-7-5026 access points (both doors and windows), location Important Changed
of mailroom, compartmentalization of loading
docks, design of parking setbacks, placement and
protection of air handling systems and air intakes,
structural enhancements, and ramming protection.
Consider sign off authority for security and safety
on all construction projects.
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Property Managers should collaborate during
major events (e.g., hiring, downsizing, outsourcing, labor Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers
disputes, civil disorder).to ensure that security risks are
identified and plans are developed to protect the company's Keywords(s): Add: Access Control, Buildings,
personnel and assets. Contractors & Vendors, Disaster Recovery, Highly
9-7-5027 Changed
Industry Cooperation, Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 74 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should facilitate the
availability of security related hardware and media (e.g., Industry Role(s): No Change
spare hardware) and/or a contingency plan for its
availability in the event of a disaster. Keywords(s): Add: Access Control Highly
9-7-5029 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should provide a level of security
protection over critical inventory (i.e., spares) that is Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
proportionate to the criticality of the equipment.
Keywords(s): Add: Access Control, Material
Highly
9-7-5030 Movement Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should establish a role for the security
function (i.e., physical and cyber) in business continuity Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
planning, including emergency response plans and periodic
tests of such plans. Keywords(s): Add: Cyber Security Highly
9-7-5031 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 75 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Network Types(s): No Change
Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers should establish a
procedure governing the assignment of facility access Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers,
levels. Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Contractors & Vendors,
Guard Forces, Disaster Recovery, Information
9-7-5032 Protection Important Changed
Reference(s): Add: This could include, but is not
limited to buildings, equipment rooms, and access
points.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety and Property Managers should
consider establishing and implementing background Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
investigation policies that include criminal background
checks of employees. Keywords(s): Delete: Physical Security,
Management, Contractors & Vendors
9-7-5033 Important Changed
Reference(s): Add: The policy should detail
elements of the background investigation as well
as disqualification criteria.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
consider establishing contractual obligations requiring Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
contractors, subcontractors and vendors to conduct
background investigations of all personnel who require Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5034 Important Changed
unescorted access to areas of critical infrastructure or who
require access to sensitive information related to critical Reference(s): No Change
infrastructure.
Status: Changed
Page 76 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
install environmental emergency response equipment (e.g., Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
fire extinguishers, high rate automatically activated pumps)
where appropriate, and periodically inspect the equipment. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5040 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
establish and implement policies and procedures to secure Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and restrict access to power, environmental, security, and
fire protection systems. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5041 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should establish and implement policies
and procedures to secure and restrict access to fuel supplies. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness Highly
9-7-5042 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
comply with security standards for perimeter lighting. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5043 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 77 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, or Property Managers should plan
and maintain landscaping at facilities to enhance the overall Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
level of building security wherever possible.
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Add: Landscaping at critical
9-7-5044 Important Changed
facilities should not obstruct necessary security
lighting or camera views of ingress and egress
areas, and landscaping should also avoid creating
fire hazards or hiding places.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Property Managers Network Types(s): No Change
should ensure critical infrastructure utility vaults are
secured from unauthorized access. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5046 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should implement a policy that
requires approval by senior member(s) of the security Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
department for security related goods and services
contracts. Keywords(s): Add: Contractors & Vendors
9-7-5048 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 78 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers using guard services
should ensure that each post has written detailed post orders Industry Role(s): No Change
including site specific instructions, up to date emergency
contact information and ensure that on the job training Keywords(s): Delete: Documentation
9-7-5052 Important Changed
occurs.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should periodically audit
guard services to ensure satisfactory performance, and Industry Role(s): No Change
compliance with organizational contractual requirements.
Keywords(s): Add: Access Control
9-7-5053 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider an enhanced level of
emergency response for locations supporting critical Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
functions.
Keywords(s): Add: Disaster Recovery, Public
Highly
9-7-5057 Safety Services Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 79 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
ensure that all critical infrastructure facilities, including the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
security equipment, devices and appliances protecting it,
are supported by backup power systems (e.g., batteries, Keywords(s): Delete: Essential Services Critically
9-7-5058 Changed
generators, fuel cells). Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider ergonomics and Network Types(s): No Change
human-centric factors when designing user interfaces (e.g.,
hardware labeling, software, documentation). Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5061 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should staff critical functions at
appropriate levels, considering human factors such as Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
workload and fatigue.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5062 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should alarm and monitor critical
electronic equipment areas to detect parameters that are Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
outside operating specifications (e.g., temperature,
humidity). Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5064 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 80 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
ensure that sensitive information pertaining to critical Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
infrastructure is considered proprietary and access is
restricted appropriately, both internally and externally. Keywords(s): Add: Cyber Security
Highly
9-7-5066 Changed
Reference(s): Add: Appropriate markings are Important
required to qualify for exemption from disclosure
under FOIA.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should establish standards, policies and
procedures that, where feasible, restrict equipment access to Industry Role(s): No Change
authorized personnel where co-location exists.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5068 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider establishment of a
senior management function for a chief security officer Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
(CSO) or functional equivalent to direct and manage both
physical and cyber security. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5070 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 81 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should maintain liaison with local law
enforcement, fire department and other security and Industry Role(s): No Change
emergency agencies to exchange critical information related
to threats, warnings and mutual concerns. Keywords(s): Add: Public Safety Service Highly
9-7-5071 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should perform risk assessments on
key network facilities and control areas on a regular basis, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
taking into account natural disasters and unintentional or
intentional acts of people impacting the facility or nearby Keywords(s): Add: Buildings Highly
9-7-5072 Changed
structures. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should document in a Disaster
Recovery Plan the process for restoring physical security Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
control points for critical infrastructure facilities.
Keywords(s): Add: Disaster Recovery Critically
9-7-5074 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should ensure that networks built with redundancy are also
built with geographic separation where feasible (e.g., avoid Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
placing mated pairs in the same location and redundant
logical facilities in the same physical path). Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5075 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 82 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should be automatically notified upon the loss of alarm data
and react accordingly. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): Delete: Emergency Preparedness Highly
9-7-5078 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should identify and track critical network equipment,
location of spares, and sources of spares to ensure the long Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider, Public
term continuity and availability of communication service. Safety
Highly
9-7-5080 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should maintain the availability of
spares for critical network systems. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5083 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 83 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider ensuring that
outsourcing of hardware and software includes a quality Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
assessment, functional testing and security testing by an
independent entity. Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-7-5084 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers, Network Operators, Property Managers, Network Types(s): No Change
Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers should establish,
implement and enforce appropriate procedures for the Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers,
storage and movement of equipment and material, including Public Safety
trash removal, to deter theft.
Highly
9-7-5089 Keywords(s): Add: Hardware Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should develop and implement, as appropriate,
travel security awareness training and briefings before Industry Role(s): No Change
traveling internationally.
Keywords(s): Delete: Physical Security
9-7-5091 Management Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 84 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should establish an incident reporting
mechanism and investigations program so that security or Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
safety related events are recorded, analyzed, and
investigated as appropriate. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5092 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
implement a security response plan for communications Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
facilities that recognizes the threats identified in the
National Terrorism Advisory System. Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Modify: In order to prevent
terrorist/criminal access and activity. Homeland Highly
9-7-5095 Changed
Security's Physical Security Alert Status Program. Important
See
http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/ntas.shtm#curr
ent http://www.dhs.gov/.national-terrorism-
advisory-system
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should require compliance with corporate security
standards and programs for contractors (and their Industry Role(s): No Change
subcontractors), vendors and others as appropriate.
Keywords(s): Add: Information Protection Highly
9-7-5096 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 85 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
consider keeping centralized trash storage outside the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
building and dumpsters located away from the building to
reduce the potential for fire and access to the building. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5099 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should interact with federal, state, and local
agencies to identify and address potential adverse security Industry Role(s): No Change
and service impacts of new laws and regulations (e.g.,
exposing vulnerability information, required security Keywords(s): Add: Information Protection
9-7-5100 Important Changed
measures, fire codes).
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider the security implications of
equipment movement both domestically and internationally, Industry Role(s): Add: Service Providers
including movement across borders and through ports of
entry. Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
9-7-5105 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete: TAPA - Technology and
Asset Protection Association.
Status: No Change
Page 86 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Public Safety should not share Network Types(s): No Change
information pertaining to the criticality of individual
communication facilities or the traffic they carry, except Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
with trusted entities for justified specific purposes with
appropriate protections against further disclosure. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5110 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Government, and Equipment Suppliers should not share
information regarding the location, configuration or Industry Role(s): Add: Service Providers, Public
composition of the telecommunication infrastructure Safety, Equipment Suppliers, and Government
without proper information protection measures.
Highly
9-7-5111 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should establish,
implement and enforce mailroom and delivery screening Industry Role(s): No Change
procedures that recognize changes in threat conditions and
increase attention to security as appropriate. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5114 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 87 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers, and Property Managers should
provide periodic briefings on guidance to personnel Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
(employees or contractors) involved in shipping, receiving
or mailroom activities for identifying suspicious letters or Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5116 Important Changed
parcels and protocols for handling any suspicious items.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers of critical network elements should Network Types(s): No Change
consider designing electronic hardware to industry
requirements to minimize susceptibility to electromagnetic Industry Role(s): No Change
energy, shock, vibration, voltage spikes, and temperature.
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Modify: See GR-1089,
Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical
Safety - Generic Criteria for Network
Telecommunications Equipment, Telcordia at
http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs.cgi?DOCUMENT=1089&KEYWOR
DS=&TITLE=&ID=298454680SEARCH GR
1089 Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical Highly
9-7-5117 Changed
Safety - Generic Criteria for Network Important
Telecommunications Equipment, Telcordia,
http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs2.pl?ID=170086171&page=home. or
See EN 300 386-2 Electromagnetic Compatibility
and Radio Spectrum Matters (ERM);
Telecommunication Network Equipment;
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
Requirements; Part 2: Product Family Standard,
ETSI, Feb 27, 1999,
http://webapp.etsi.org/WorkProgram
Status: No Change
Page 88 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers of critical network elements should Network Types(s): No Change
test electronic hardware to ensure its compliance with
design criteria for tolerance to electromagnetic energy, Industry Role(s): No Change
shock, vibration, voltage spikes, and temperature.
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Modify: GR-1089,
Electromagnetic Compatibility and Electrical
Safety - Generic Criteria for Network
Telecommunications Equipment, Telcordia at
http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site- Highly
9-7-5118 Changed
cgi/ido/docs.cgi?DOCUMENT=1089&KEYWOR Important
DS=&TITLE=&ID=298454680SEARCH or See
EN 300 386-2 Electromagnetic Compatibility and
Radio Spectrum Matters (ERM);
Telecommunication Network Equipment;
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)
Requirements; Part 2: Product Family Standard,
ETSI, http://webapp.etsi.org/WorkProgram
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
evaluate the potential benefits and security implications Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
when making decisions about building and facility signage,
both internally and externally. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5120 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 89 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should develop and consistently
implement software delivery procedures that protect the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
integrity of the delivered software in order to prevent
software loads from being compromised during the delivery Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5121 Important Changed
process.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers who file outage Network Types(s): No Change
reports for major network outages should ensure that such
reports do not unnecessarily contain information that Industry Role(s): No Change
discloses specific network vulnerabilities, to prevent such
information from being available to public access. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5129 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider establishing a policy
to manage the risks associated with key personnel traveling Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
together.
Keywords(s): Delete: Physical Security
Management
9-7-5134 Important Changed
Add: Business Continuity, Human Resources
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 90 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should participate in the
Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Council (CSRIC) and its working groups in order to
develop industry Best Practices for addressing and Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5135 Important Changed
mitigating public communications infrastructure
vulnerabilities. Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should plan for the Network Types(s): No Change
possibility that impacted network nodes cannot be accessed
by company personnel for an extended period of time and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
define the corporate response for restoration of service.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5138 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider restricting,
supervising, and/or prohibiting tours of critical network Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
facilities, systems and operations.
Keywords(s): Delete: Supervision
9-7-5141 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should establish plans Network Types(s): No Change
to perform interference analysis and mitigation to ensure
timely resolution of all cases of interference (e.g., caused by Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
equipment failure, intentional act/sabotage or frequency
overlap), and, where feasible, identify the type and general Keywords(s): Delete: Emergency Preparedness
9-7-5145 Important Changed
location of the interference source.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 91 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers located in the same facility should coordinate
security matters and include all tenants in the overall Industry Role(s): No Change
security and safety notification procedures, as appropriate.
Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness
9-7-5151 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider performing targeted
sweeps of critical infrastructures and network operations Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
centers for listening devices when suspicion warrants.
Keywords(s): Delete: Intrusion detection
9-7-5152 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should ensure that critical information
being provided to other companies as part of bid processes Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
is covered under non-disclosure agreements and limited to a
need to know basis. Keywords(s): Add: Contractors & Vendors
9-7-5153 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider unannounced internal
security audits at random intervals to enforce compliance Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
with company security policies.
Keywords(s): Add: Guard Force Highly
9-7-5158 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 92 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
consider establishing procedures for security video Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
equipment and recording, (e.g., storage, accurate time/date
stamping, privacy protection, and regular operational Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5163 Important Changed
performance checks).
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should establish and enforce a policy
to immediately report stolen or missing company vehicles Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and trailers to the appropriate authorities.
Keywords(s): Add: Public Safety Service
9-7-5164 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should, wherever feasible, isolate Network Types(s): No Change
R&D and software manufacturing of Network Elements
from general office systems to prevent unauthorized access. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Delete: Access Control
9-7-5166 Add: Cyber Security Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 93 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should provide secured methods, both physical
and electronic, for the internal distribution of software Industry Role(s): No Change
development and production materials.
Keywords(s): Add: Cyber Security
9-7-5167 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
utilize a coordinated physical security methodology that Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
incorporates diverse layers of security in direct proportion
to the criticality of the site. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5174 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Property Managers of collocation and telecom hotel Network Types(s): No Change
facilities should be responsible and accountable for
common space, critical shared areas (e.g., cable vault, Industry Role(s): No Change
power sources) and perimeter security for the building in
accordance with industry standards and Best Practices. Keywords(s): Add: Guard Force, Visitors
Reference(s): Modify: GR-63, NEBS
Requirements: Physical Protection, Telcordia at
http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site- Highly
9-7-5187 Changed
cgi/ido/docs2.pl?ID=170086171&page=home; Important
NRIC - http://www/nric/org; GSA -
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104821; DOD -
http://www.wbdg.org/; PCCIP -
http://www.iwar.org.uk/cip/resources/pccip/info.ht
ml
Status: No Change
Page 94 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers in multi-tenant Network Types(s): No Change
communications facilities (e.g., telecom hotels) should
provide or arrange security for their own space with Industry Role(s): No Change
consideration of CSRIC Best Practices and in coordination
with the existing security programs for the building. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5188 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers that are tenants Network Types(s): No Change
within telecom hotels should plan accordingly to protect
their own facilities from potential risks within the building Industry Role(s): No Change
complex (e.g., fire suppression system, plumbing,
hazardous materials). Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
9-7-5191 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers that are tenants of Network Types(s): No Change
a telecom hotel should provide a current list of all persons
authorized for access to the Property Manager, provide Industry Role(s): No Change
periodic updates to this list, and provide instructions for
exceptions (e.g., emergency restoration personnel). Keywords(s): Add: Guard Force
9-7-5192 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should periodically inspect, or test as
appropriate, the grounding systems in critical network Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
facilities.
Keywords(s): Add: Hardware Critically
9-7-5197 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 95 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should provide appropriate protection for outside plant
equipment (e.g., Controlled Environmental Vault, remote Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
terminals) against tampering and should, where practicable,
monitor locations for intrusion. Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations
9-7-5199 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should develop, maintain and
administer a comprehensive program to sustain a reliable Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
power infrastructure.
Keywords(s): Delete: Disaster Recovery
Critically
9-7-5203 Add: Business Continuity Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should restrict access to the AC transfer
switch housing area, ensure that scheduled maintenance of Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
the transfer switch is performed, and ensure that spare parts
are available. Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness Critically
9-7-5209 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 96 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should, under normal conditions,
disable power equipment features that allow switching off Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
of power equipment from a remote location (i.e. dial up
modem), but may consider activating such features during Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness
9-7-5211 Important Changed
severe service conditions, to allow a degree of remote
control. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider placing generator sets
and fuel supplies for critical sites within a secured area to Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
prevent unauthorized access, reduce the likelihood of
damage and/or theft, and to provide protection from Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5212 Changed
explosions and weather. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should, where feasible, place fuel tanks
in a secured and protected area restrict access to fill pipes, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
fuel lines, vents, manways, to reduce the possibility of
unauthorized access. Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-7-5213 Changed
Reference(s): Add: Restricting access may be Important
accomplished via such things as fencing, walls, or
burying.
Status: No Change
Page 97 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider placing all power and
network equipment in a location that affords physical Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
protection from potential vulnerabilities based on risk of the
location. Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
Reference(s): Add: Examples include floods, Highly
9-7-5214 Changed
broken water mains, fuel spillage. In storm surge Important
areas, consider placing all power related
equipment above the highest predicted or recorded
storm surge levels.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider providing secure pre-
constructed exterior wall pathways for mobile generator Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
connections or tap box connections.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5216 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
raise awareness of appropriate personnel regarding possible Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
secondary events immediately after an incident, including
the importance of promptly reporting any suspicious Keywords(s): Add: Disaster Recovery Highly
9-7-5217 Changed
conditions. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 98 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should implement a comprehensive Network Types(s): No Change
security program for protecting hardware, firmware and
software from malicious code insertion or tampering during Industry Role(s): No Change
development and delivery, taking into consideration that
some developmental environments around the world Keywords(s): Add: Cyber Security Highly
9-7-5218 Changed
present a higher risk level than others. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers who utilize foreign sites should establish and
implement a comprehensive physical security program for Industry Role(s): No Change
protecting corporate assets, including personnel, at those
sites. Keywords(s): Delete: Corporate Ethics
9-7-5220 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider limiting the dissemination of
information relating to future locations of key leadership. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Delete: Information Protection
9-7-5221 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider providing trouble call
centers with a physically diverse back-up capability that can Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
quickly be configured to receive the incoming traffic and
take appropriate action. Keywords(s): Add: Public Safety Service Highly
9-7-5222 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 99 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should maintain liaison with local law
enforcement, fire department, other utilities and other Industry Role(s): No Change
security and emergency agencies to ensure effective
coordination for emergency response and restoration. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5226 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should have controlled access to
comprehensive facility cabling documentation (e.g., Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
equipment installation plans, network connections, power,
grounding and bonding) and keep a backup copy of this Keywords(s): Delete: Disaster Recovery Highly
9-7-5229 Changed
documentation at a secured off-site location. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should verify proper functioning of
electronic surveillance equipment (e.g., CCTV, access Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
control logs, alarm monitoring) at critical access points
after any incident that may impact such equipment. Keywords(s): Delete: Intrusion Detection
9-7-5233 Add: Fire Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 100 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Property Managers should take the lead in restoration Network Types(s): No Change
efforts of the base building infrastructure for an incident at
a multi-tenant facility, ensuring that they have points of Industry Role(s): No Change
contact for each tenant to allow for coordination, support,
security, and additional resources as necessary. Keywords(s): Add: Liaison, Emergency
9-7-5236 Preparedness, Physical Security Management Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should reassess the criticality of
associated facilities following a catastrophic incident (i.e. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
loss of one facility may make others more critical).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5242 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should document the use of non-
standard equipment or cable during restoration to review Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and/or replace those devices or cable as appropriate.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5245 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 101 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Public Safety should evaluate the Network Types(s): No Change
priority on re-establishing diversity of facility entry points
(e.g., copper or fiber conduit, network interfaces for Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
entrance facilities) during the restoration process.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-9-5252 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should monitor temporary
connections of network test equipment that are established Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
for restoration to prevent access by unauthorized personnel.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5256 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should identify carrier interconnection
points and coordinate restoral plans, as appropriate. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5261 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should use cables with adequate
reliability and cable signal integrity, (e.g., flammability, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
strain reliefs, signal loss) and should mark as temporary and
replace with standard cables as soon as practical any non- Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5263 Changed
standard cables used because of an emergency restoration. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 102 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers who utilize Network Types(s): No Change
satellite backhaul as part of providing services should
maintain an alternate recovery facility (Such as an Earth Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
Station) that would duplicate necessary satellite backhaul
operations. The alternate recovery facility should be Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5264 Changed
geographically diverse from the primary facility, Important
maintained and tested on a regular schedule to ensure Reference(s): No Change
readiness and timely response.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
ensure that operating procedures are clearly defined and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
followed by personnel during emergency situations in order
to avoid degradation of cyber and physical security due to a Keywords(s): Delete: Business Continuity,
diversion. Corporate Ethics Highly
9-7-5267 Changed
Add: Guard Forces, Network Operations Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should incorporate
various types of diversionary tactics into exercises to assess Industry Role(s): No Change
the security response.
Keywords(s): Add: Guard Force
9-7-5269 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 103 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers personnel
should authenticate and cross-verify information, knowing Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
that terrorists or malicious groups may use false
information to divert attention and resources away from Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5270 Important Changed
their intended physical or cyber target.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider physical and cyber security issues in
Mutual Aid Agreements (e.g., authorization, access control, Industry Role(s): No Change
badging).
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5271 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should include security considerations
in disaster recovery plans for critical infrastructure sites. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5272 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 104 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider backup power
capabilities for Command and Control (Crisis Teams) so Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
that communications and access to critical systems can be
maintained in the event of a significant disruption to Keywords(s): Delete: Security Systems
Critically
9-7-5275 commercial power. Add: Disaster Recovery Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers who develop hardware, software or firmware
should ensure that appropriate security programs are in Industry Role(s): No Change
place for protecting the product from theft or industrial
espionage, taking into consideration that some Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5277 Changed
developmental environments around the world present a Important
higher risk level than others. Reference(s): Add: See Best Practice 5218
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider site specific (e.g.,
location, region, country) threat information during security Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
program development.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5279 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 105 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, Public Safety, and Property Managers should
instruct security personnel to confirm the authenticity of Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
directions to supersede existing security processes or
procedures before implementing changes. Keywords(s): Add: Access Control, Disaster
9-7-5280 Recovery, Procedures Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should coordinate Network Types(s): No Change
with Property Managers to ensure adequate growth space.
Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operators
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5282 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should make security an ongoing
priority and implement an annual compliance requirement Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
for the completion of a security awareness program.
Keywords(s): Delete: Public Safety Service
9-8-5067 Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 106 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should design Network Types(s): No Change
broadband networks with the ability to take active measures
to detect and restrict or inhibit any network activity that Industry Role(s): No Change
adversely impacts performance or security.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations Critically
9-7-0814 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Providers should provide timely documentation Network Types(s): No Change
that is complete and easy-to-use.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0561 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider validating upgrades, new procedures and
commands in a lab or other test environment that simulates Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
the target network and load prior to the first application in
the field. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0559 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should share countermeasures Network Types(s): No Change
resulting from analysis of an outage with Network
Operators and Public Safety using the same equipment. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
8-5-0540 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 107 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should endeavor to meet requirements Network Types(s): No Change
outlined in Industry Standards regarding Network
Equipment-Building System (NEBS) practices for Power Industry Role(s): No Change
and Communication Cables (e.g., power, fire, temperature,
8-5-0620 humidity, vibration). Keywords(s): No Change Important
Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should conduct periodic verification of the office
synchronization plan and the diversity of timing links, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
power feeds and alarms.
Keywords(s): Add: Essential Services
8-6-0761 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers implementing DNS (Domain Name Network Types(s): No Change
System) servers in support of VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol) telephone number mapping applications such as Industry Role(s): No Change
ENUM should provision those servers per Industry
Standards for operation of DNS name servers. Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
8-6-0763 Important Changed
Reference(s): Add: Reference IETF Best Current
Practices for operation of DNS nameservers: BCP
40 (RFC 2182) and BCP 16 (RFC 2870).
Status: No Change
Page 108 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should Network Types(s): No Change
implement congestion control mechanisms for transporting
VoIP data on IP networks. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-6-0764 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Add: See RFC 2309, RFC 2914,
and RFC 3155 for examples
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
using media gateway controllers to achieve interoperability
with SS7/ISUP-signaled TDM voice networks. Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator
Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-6-0767 Changed
Important
Reference(s): Add: See IETF RFC 3372, BCP 63
for examples.
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers implementing a Network Types(s): No Change
SIP-signaled VoIP network should consider using media
gateway controllers that map ISUP-to-SIP and SIP-to-ISUP Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator
messages in order to achieve a consistent interpretation of
ISUP-to-SIP messaging industrywide. Keywords(s): No Change
Highly
9-6-0768 Reference(s): Add: See IETF RFC 3398, Important Changed
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User
Part (ISUP) to Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
Mapping.
Status: No Change
Page 109 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers implementing a Network Types(s): No Change
Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)-signaled network
should implement industry standards to achieve Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator
interoperability between an SS7/ISUP signaled TDM voice
network and a SIP-signaled VoIP network. Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Add: See ITU-T Recommendation
Q.1912.5, “Interworking between Session Highly
9-6-0769 Changed
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Bearer Independent Important
Call Control Protocol or ISDN User Part,” or
3GPP TS 29.163, “Interworking between the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem
and Circuit Switched (CS) networks,”
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers who have Network Types(s): No Change
deployed IS-41 or GSM Mobility Application Part (MAP)
signaling networks should consider implementing and using Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator.
the network management controls of SS7 within their
Highly
networks. Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-0770 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers, Network Operators, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should incorporate methodologies that
continually improve network or equipment performance. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0404 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 110 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
processes for NOC-to-NOC (Network Operations Center)
peer communications for critical network activities (e.g., Industry Role(s): No Change
scheduled maintenance, upgrades and outages).
Critically
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0407 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Service Providers should use virtual interfaces (i.e. a router Network Types(s): No Change
loopback address) for routing protocols and network
management to maintain connectivity to the network Industry Role(s): No Change
element in the presence of physical interface outages.
Highly
Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
9-7-0409 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should design network elements Network Types(s): No Change
intended for critical hardware and software with recovery
mechanisms to minimize restoration times. Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0421 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should whenever Network Types(s): No Change
possible require specific applicable safety standards for
network elements that they plan to purchase, procure or Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
implement.
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0424 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 111 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should maintain software Network Types(s): No Change
documentation including revision change history and
associated release notes. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0427 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should provide for appropriate storage Network Types(s): No Change
and retrieval mechanisms of system operational data to
support analysis after a hardware or software crash. Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0429 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should be able to recreate supported Network Types(s): No Change
software from source including, where feasible, software
obtained from third parties. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity Important
9-7-0430 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should provide capacity and Network Types(s): No Change
performance data for network elements.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0431 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 112 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should support standardized MIBs Network Types(s): No Change
(Management Information Bases) and maintain
documentation of private and enterprise MIBs. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): Update: Enterprise MIBs are those
written by vendors for their particular object. The Highly
9-7-0432 managed object can furnish both standard MIB Important Changed
and enterprise MIB information. The standard
MIBs are those that have been approved by the
IAB (Internet Architecture Board,
http://www.iab.org) Equipment and software
vendors define the private MIBs unilaterally.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should assess
the functions of their organization and identify those critical Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
to ensure network reliability.
Critically
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0435 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should have a process to ensure smooth handling and clear
ownership of problems that transition work shifts or Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator, Public
organizational boundaries. Safety
Highly
9-7-0436 Keywords(s): Delete: Business Continuity Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 113 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should aggregate Network Types(s): No Change
routes where appropriate (e.g., singly-homed downstream
networks) in order to minimize the size of the global Industry Role(s): No Change
routing table taking care to not disrupt engineered circuit
Highly
diversity. Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0437 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should enable Network Types(s): No Change
CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) by implementing
classless route prefixes on routing elements. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security Important
9-7-0438 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should set and Network Types(s): No Change
periodically review situation-specific limits on numbers of
routes imported from peers and customers in order to lessen Industry Role(s): No Change
the impact of misconfigurations.
Highly
Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
9-7-0440 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should, where feasible, deploy fraudulent traffic (e.g.,
SPAM) controls in relevant nodes (e.g., message centers, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
email gateways) in order to protect critical network
elements and services. Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-9-0449 Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 114 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Property Managers should maintain current documentation Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Wireline
that ensures that the tower loading is consistent with the
engineering design (e.g., antenna loading, feedline loading, Industry Role(s): No Change
ice or wind loading).
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0450 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Property Managers should conduct a periodic physical site Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Wireline
audit to update and maintain accurate antenna and tower
engineering documentation in order to positively identify Industry Role(s): Delete: Network Operators,
every item on the tower structure (e.g., identifying rogue Service Providers
antennas).
Important
9-7-0451 Keywords(s): Add: Buildings Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Add: Wireline, Satellite,
Property Managers should post emergency contact Cable
number(s) and unique site identification in an externally
visible location at unmanned communication facilities (e.g., Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
towers, cell sites, Controlled Environment Vault (CEV), Highly
9-7-0452 satellite earth stations), but should not reveal additional Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
information about the facility, except when necessary.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 115 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Add: Wireline, Satellite,
should prepare for HVAC or cabinet fan failures by Cable, Internet
ensuring that conventional fans are available to cool heat-
sensitive equipment, as appropriate. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
Highly
9-7-0453 Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Add: Wireline, Satellite,
Equipment Suppliers should consider establishing technical Cable, Internet
and managerial escalation policies and procedures based on
the service impact, restoration progress and duration of the Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Supplier,
issue. Public Safety
Highly
9-7-0454 Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations, Important Changed
Procedures
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Network Operators should Network Types(s): Add: Wireline, Satellite,
consider a program to remove cards or modules from Cable, Internet
circulation that have a history of failure even if tests
indicate “No Trouble Found”. Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator
9-7-0455 Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 116 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should maintain records of pertinent information related to
a cell site for its prioritization in disaster recovery and key Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider, Public
coverage areas (e.g., emergency services, government Safety
agencies, proximity to hospitals).
Critically
9-9-0456 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should develop a Network Types(s): No Change
process to identify Radio Frequency (RF) dead spots and,
where feasible, provide a solution to fill the dead spot with Industry Role(s): No Change
RF coverage.
Keywords(s): No Change Important
9-7-0457 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators should verify that calls handoff between Network Types(s): No Change
cells when a new cell site is added to the network.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Important
9-7-0458 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 117 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should design Network Types(s): No Change
outdoor equipment to operate in expected environmental
conditions (e.g., weather, earthquakes). Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager
Keywords(s): Delete: Transport Facilities Important
9-7-0459 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should provide the capability to test Network Types(s): No Change
failover routines of redundant network elements.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
Keywords(s): Delete: Transport Facilities
9-7-0461 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should work in conjunction with Network Types(s): Add: Government
Government to anticipate Radio Frequency (RF) capacity
needs driven by changes in vehicle traffic patterns or other Industry Role(s): No Change
demographics.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Design Important
9-7-0462 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
establishing agreements so that mobile customers can roam
on other providers' networks. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness Important
9-7-0463 Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 118 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Property Managers should consider Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
the use of cable support (e.g., H-Frames, Ice Bridges) in Wireline
tower and shelter designs.
Industry Role(s): No Change
Important
9-7-0469 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Property Managers should consider Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
tower and antenna designs that do not attract bird and Wireline
animal nesting (e.g., no platforms, flush mounted panels,
smooth radome). Industry Role(s): No Change
Important
9-7-0470 Keywords(s): Delete: Network Design Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider modifying travel
guidelines/policies for use during a pandemic or other crisis Industry Role(s): No Change
situations.
9-8-0789 Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 119 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Service Providers, Network Operators, Property Managers, Network Types(s): No Change
and Equipment Suppliers should review their insurance
requirements in order to maintain business continuity in the Industry Role(s): Add: Property Managers
event of massive property damage or loss, incapacitation of
senior officers, and other interruptive situations. Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-1013 Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Government, should develop processes or
plans to quickly account for all employees (e.g. field techs) Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Supplier,
in or near the impact area of a disaster. Government
Critically
9-6-1016 Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should develop a strategy for Network Types(s): No Change
deployment of emergency mobile assets such as Cell on
Wheels (COWs), cellular repeaters, Switch on Wheels Industry Role(s): No Change
(SOWs), transportable satellite terminals, microwave
equipment, power generators, HVAC units, etc. for Keywords(s): Delete: Pandemic Highly
9-9-1033 Changed
emergency use or service augmentation for planned events Important
(e.g., National Special Security Event (NSSE)). Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 120 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should determine in advance if they will Network Types(s): No Change
use wireless alternate backhaul systems (microwave radio,
free space optics, and satellite communications systems) to Industry Role(s): No Change
re-establish communications and if these technologies are
to be deployed it is recommended that path designs be Keywords(s): Add: Network Elements Highly
9-7-1036 Changed
developed for each critical area in advance of deployment Important
with personnel trained to install and optimize the systems. Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should develop support processes that Network Types(s): No Change
include interfaces with those internal organizations (e.g.,
sales, logistics, and manufacturing) that have a potential Industry Role(s): No Change
role in assisting Network Operators and Service Providers
in disaster response efforts. Keywords(s): Add: Contractors and Vendors,
Highly
9-7-1039 Materials Movement Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should use their Network Types(s): No Change
escalation process, as needed, to address resource issues
identified through damage and resource assessments. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Human Resources, Industry
9-7-1045
Cooperation Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 121 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should install fire detection systems and
consider the use of suppression systems or devices at Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
buildings supporting network functionality.
9-7-1054 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Provider, Network Operators, Equipment Suppliers, Network Types(s): No Change
and Public Safety should ensure that Telecommunication
Service Priority (TSP) records and data bases are reconciled Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
annually.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-1061
Important Changed
Reference(s): Add:
http://www.dhs.gov/telecommunications-service-
priority-tsp
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should identify Network Types(s): No Change
and manage critical network elements and architecture that
are essential for network connectivity and subscriber Industry Role(s): No Change
services considering security, functional redundancy and
9-7-1065 geographical diversity. Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 122 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish and implement corporate
standards for physical and system security requirements in Industry Role(s): No Change
consideration of the Best Practices of the communications
9-6-5097 industry. Keywords(s): Add: Security System Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should ensure that all network infrastructure
equipment meets the minimum industry standards for fire Industry Role(s): No Change
resistance.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5098
Important Changed
Reference(s): Add: Example: ATIS-
0600319.2014, April 2014
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider participating in and complying
with industry organizations that develops standards for Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator,
security, logistics and transportation practices. Service Provider
9-6-5106
Keywords(s): No Change Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete Reference
Status: No Change
Page 123 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should work together to deploy safeguards to
protect the software (i.e. generic or upgrade releases) being Industry Role(s): No Change
loaded to network elements in order to prevent sabotage.
9-6-5142 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider establishing an
employee awareness training program to inform employees Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
who create, receive or transfer proprietary information of
9-7-5019 their responsibilities for compliance with proprietary Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
information protection policies and procedures.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should provide and maintain accurate single line
drawings of AC switch equipment on-site. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-9-0665 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Critically
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider remote, electronic antenna aiming and
utilize tower-mounted equipment that minimizes the need Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
for tower top maintenance where conditions prevent climbs
9-7-0471 (e.g., osprey nest, weather conditions). Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 124 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider maintaining a list of authorized climbers
and a log of authorized tower climbs. Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator, Public
Safety
9-7-0473
Important Changed
Keywords(s): No Change
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should periodically perform grounds maintenance at cell
site facilities (e.g., pest control, mow grass, fence Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
maintenance, snow removal).
9-7-0474 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should have agreements in place to ensure necessary and
timely access to cell sites. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0475 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should consider the Network Types(s): No Change
potential of electromagnetic coupling when designing cell
sites with high voltage FAA beacons and, if present, take Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
appropriate steps to mitigate the interference (e.g., squelch,
9-7-0477 physical separation, shielding). Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 125 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Public Safety should allow for Network Types(s): No Change
deviation in elevation angle and azimuth resulting from
deflection of the supporting structure (e.g., sun, load Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
distribution, wind) during the design of a cell site.
9-7-0478 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should periodically inspect antennas, waveguide, and
ancillary hardware to insure physical integrity and the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
absence of physical movement which can create
9-7-0480 intermittent and localized intermodulation interference Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
generators (e.g., rusty joints) and/or alter predicted antenna Important
radiation patterns (e.g., antennas swinging around in the Reference(s): No Change
wind) potentially creating interference.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should ensure appropriate spacing between all antennas at a
cell site in order to avoid interference, intermodulation, or Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
other detrimental effects.
9-7-0481 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should utilize RF Network Types(s): No Change
propagation and other modeling tools to analyze and
optimize designs to avoid interference and improve network Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
performance.
9-7-0482 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 126 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Public Safety should have a master Network Types(s): No Change
cell site database with configuration parameters,
connectivity, and performance statistics that can be used to Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
analyze and audit cell site performance.
9-7-0483 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Public Safety should have a Network Types(s): No Change
program (e.g., automated drive test equipment, network
probes) to monitor and detect network performance Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
anomalies.
9-7-0484 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should provide back-up power (e.g., some combination of
batteries, generator, fuel cells) at cell sites and remote Industry Role(s): Add: Property Manager, Public
equipment locations, consistent with the site specific Safety
constraints, criticality of the site, the expected load and
9-7-0492 reliability of primary power. Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness Critically
Changed
Delete: Access Control Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 127 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider placing fixed power generators at cell sites,
where feasible. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0493 Keywords(s): No Change Critically
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider including a provision in cell-site contracts
for back-up power. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0494 Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Add: Cable, Internet,
should consider pre-arranging contact information and Satellite, Wireline
access to restoral information with local power companies.
Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0495 Critically
Keywords(s): No Change Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 128 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider storing their portable generators at critical
sites that are not otherwise equipped with stationary Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
generators.
9-7-0496 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Property Managers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider alternative measures for cooling network
equipment facilities (e.g., powering HVAC on generator, Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
deploying mobile HVAC units) in the event of a power
outage. Keywords(s): Add: Emergency Preparedness,
9-7-0498 Highly
Disaster Recovery Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider ensuring that the back-haul facility
equipment located at the cell site is provided with backup Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
power duration equal to that provided for the other
9-7-0499 equipment at the cell site. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Page 129 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should report problems discovered from their operation of
network equipment to the Equipment Supplier whose Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
equipment was found to be the cause of problem.
9-7-0501 Keywords(s): Delete: Documentation
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
company-specific interconnection agreements, and where
appropriate, utilize existing interconnection templates and Industry Role(s): No Change
existing data connection trust agreement.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0508
Reference(s): FCC URL(s) needs added to this Important Changed
reference when available to provide user’s access
to older NRIC Final Reports and supporting
documents.
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should perform periodic inspections of
fire and water stops where cable ways pass through floors Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
and walls (e.g., sealing compounds).
9-7-0512 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 130 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should design network elements and Network Types(s): No Change
associated network management elements with the
combined capability to dynamically handle peak load and Industry Role(s): No Change
overload conditions gracefully and queue or shed traffic as
necessary (e.g., flow control). Keywords(s): Delete: Network Provisioning,
9-7-0517 Highly
Network Operations Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should support sharing of appropriate information
pertaining to outages as an effort to decrease the potential Industry Role(s): No Change
of further propagation.
9-9-0529 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should include steps to prevent and Network Types(s): No Change
detect malicious code insertion from Original Equipment
Manufacturers (OEMs), contractors, and disgruntled Industry Role(s): No Change
employees.
9-7-0542 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 131 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
agreements with Property Managers for both regular and
emergency power. Industry Role(s): Add: Network Operator
9-7-0543 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should consider minimizing single points of failure (SPOF)
in paths linking network elements deemed critical to the Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
operations of a network.
Keywords(s): Delete: Business Continuity
9-9-0546 Highly
Changed
Reference(s): Add: With this design, two or Important
more simultaneous failures or errors need to occur
at the same time to cause a service interruption.
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should place critical network databases (e.g., directory
server, feature server, Service Control Point (SCP)) in a Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
secure environment across distributed locations to provide
9-9-0547 service assurance (e.g., maintainability, connectivity, Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
security, reliability) consistent with other critical network Important
elements. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 132 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should have an internal post mortem process, which
engages Equipment Suppliers and other involved parties as Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
appropriate, to complete root cause analysis of major
9-9-0548 network events with follow-up implementation of Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
corrective and preventive actions to minimize the Important
probability of recurrence. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should perform software fault Network Types(s): No Change
insertion (including simulating network faults such as
massive failures) as a standard part of the development Industry Role(s): No Change
process.
9-7-0552 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should perform hardware fault Network Types(s): No Change
insertion testing (including simulating network faults such
as massive failures) as a standard part of the development Industry Role(s): No Change
process.
9-7-0553 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Equipment Suppliers should converge hardware and Network Types(s): No Change
software fault recovery design processes early in the
development cycle. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0554 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 133 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should take steps to minimize the Network Types(s): No Change
possibility of having a silent failure on any system
component, especially critical components, throughout the Industry Role(s): No Change
life of the product.
9-7-0557 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should inspect and maintain heating,
venting, air conditioning (HVAC) areas. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0645 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should ensure certified inspection of
boilers & fuel storage units. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0648 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 134 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should keep circuit breaker
racking/ratchet tools, spare fuses, fuse pullers, etc. readily Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
available.
Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning,
9-9-0667 Highly
Hardware Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide a Network Types(s): No Change
minimum of 3 hours battery reserve for central offices
equipped with fully automatic standby systems. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0672 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: Changed
Network Operators, Service Provider, Equipment Suppliers Network Types(s): No Change
and Property Managers should ensure that fuses and
breakers meet quality reliability standards. Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
Keywords(s): Add: Network Provisioning
Reference(s): Add: Refer to Technical Reference
9-7-0681 Highly
(SR-332), Reliability Prediction Procedure for Changed
Important
Electronic Equipment, and http://telecom-
info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs.cgi?ID=SEARCH&DOCUMENT=S
R-332&
Status: Changed
Page 135 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers, and Property Managers should verify DC fusing
levels throughout the power supply and distribution system, Industry Role(s): Add: Equipment Supplier
especially at the main primary distribution board, to ensure
that fuses and breakers are not loaded at more than 80% of Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
9-7-0684 their rated ampacity.
Important Changed
Reference(s): Add: Diode OR'ed arrangements
require additional special overcurrent protection
considerations
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should have Network Types(s): No Change
detailed methods and procedures to identify the protection
required for energized DC buses. Industry Role(s): Add: Service Provider
9-7-0685 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider using fail-safe alarm
points (i.e., alarm point that does not require power to Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
operate) for critical alarms.
9-7-0692 Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 136 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should emphasize the use of Methods Of
Procedures (MOPs), vendor monitoring, and performing Industry Role(s): No Change
work on in-service equipment during low traffic periods
9-9-0693 (i.e., maintenance window). Keywords(s): Delete: Power
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should use Network Types(s): No Change
infrared thermography to check power connections and
cabling in central offices when trouble shooting, during Industry Role(s): Delete: Property Manager
installation test and acceptance, and as otherwise
9-7-0696 appropriate. Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider the use of power
expertise/power teams. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-9-0700 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should minimize Network Types(s): No Change
dependence on equipment requiring AC power feeds in
favor of DC-powered components. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0702 Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 137 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should secure remote power
maintenance systems to prevent unauthorized use. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0703 Keywords(s): Add: Cyber Security
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should place warning tape 12 inches Network Types(s): No Change
above buried cable facilities.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0705 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should use visible cable markings on Network Types(s): No Change
buried facilities and outside plant cables (unless prone to
vandalism). Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0706 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should ensure timely response once Network Types(s): No Change
they receive notification from the One Call Center for all
locate requests. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0707 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 138 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should use appropriate technologies for Network Types(s): No Change
locating buried facilities and consider upgrading as
technologies evolve. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0708 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should compare outside plant drawings Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
relative to marking cable route maps when locating buried
facilities and resolve any discrepancies. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0709 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should use 'dig carefully' concepts and Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
utilize guidance from industry sources for the protection of
underground facilities when excavation is to take place Industry Role(s): No Change
within the specified tolerance zone.
9-7-0710 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should use 'dig carefully' concepts and Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
utilize guidance from industry sources when installing
underground facilities. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0719 Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 139 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should consider pest control measures
to protect cables where appropriate. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0722 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Government should increase Network Types(s): No Change
stakeholder coordination and cooperation to improve the
effectiveness of state one-call (811) legislation efforts. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0725 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should consider partnering with Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
excavators, locators, and municipalities in a cable damage
prevention program (811). Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0726 Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should establish training, qualification Network Types(s): No Change
and performance standards for internal utility locators and
establish performance standards with external utility Industry Role(s): No Change
locators.
9-7-0729 Keywords(s): Add: Industry Cooperation
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 140 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should coordinate activities with other Network Types(s): No Change
right-of-way occupants to minimize the potential for
damage when they are relocating buried facilities in a Industry Role(s): No Change
common right-of-way area.
9-7-0733 Keywords(s): Add: Liaison
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should evaluate the performance of Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
their contracted excavators and internal excavators to foster
improved network reliability. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0735 Keywords(s): Add: Supervision
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should develop and implement a rapid Network Types(s): No Change
restoration program for cables and facilities.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-9-0736 Keywords(s): Add: Policy Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 141 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should review, Network Types(s): Delete: Satellite
and adopt as appropriate, Best Practices aimed at reducing
damage to underground facilities that are maintained by the Industry Role(s): No Change
Common Ground Alliance.
Keywords(s): Add: Documentation, Policy,
Procedures, Training & Awarness
Reference(s): Update: The Common Ground
Alliance Best Practices document
9-7-0741 (www.commongroundalliance.com) provides
Important Changed
comprehensive guidance in the areas of Planning
& Design, One-Call Centers, Locating & Marking,
Excavation, Mapping, Compliance, Public
Education, Reporting & Evaluation, and
Homeland Security. Many of the Best Practice are
applicable to the activities of Service Providers
and Network Operators.
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should design equipment so that Network Types(s): No Change
changes and upgrades are non-service impacting.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-9-0745 Keywords(s): Add: Technical Support
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 142 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should emphasize human factors Network Types(s): No Change
during design and development to reduce human errors and
the impact of these errors. Automated systems should be Industry Role(s): No Change
considered to reduce operating errors.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0746
Reference(s): Modify: See GR 2914 at Important Changed
http://telecom-info.telcordia.com/site-
cgi/ido/docs.cgi?ID=287618448SEARCH&DOCU
MENT=GR-2914
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should work together to establish reliability and
performance objectives in the field environment. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Policy
9-7-0747
Delete: Hardware Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should provide troubleshooting job Network Types(s): No Change
aids, with updates as appropriate, to assist operations
support personnel during fault isolation and recovery. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Disaster Recovery, Training
9-7-0748
& Awareness Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 143 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should prevent critical systems from Network Types(s): No Change
accepting or allowing service affecting activity without
appropriate confirmation. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0749 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Critically
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should provide clear and specific Network Types(s): No Change
engineering guidelines, ordering procedures, and
installation documentation in support of their products. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0751 Keywords(s): Add: Hardware, Software
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should evaluate support documentation as an integral part
of the equipment selection process. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0752 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): No Change
should be familiar with support documentation provided
with the equipment. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0753 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 144 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should have documented installation
guidelines for equipment deployment in their network or Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
buildings.
9-7-0754 Keywords(s): Add: Hardware
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should
consider including a quality review based on the installation Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
guidelines as part of the on-site installation acceptance.
9-7-0756 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should have procedures for pre-
qualification or certification of installation vendors. Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
9-7-0757 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 145 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure Network Types(s): No Change
that engineering, design, and installation processes address
how new network elements are integrated into the office Industry Role(s): No Change
and network synchronization plan(s).
Keywords(s): Add: Network Operations
9-9-0759
Important Changed
Reference(s): Delete:
Best Practice recommended by the NRSC Timing
Outage Task Force Report - March 6, 2002
Status: No Change
Network Operators should configure their TCP algorithm Network Types(s): No Change
parameters in order to optimize the performance of TCP/IP
data transport for VoIP over wireless networks. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0765 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers should consider using a minimum Network Types(s): No Change
interoperable subset for VoIP coding standards in a VoIP-
to-PSTN gateway configuration in order to achieve Industry Role(s): No Change
interoperability and support all types of voice band
communication (e.g., DTMF tones, facsimile, TTY/TDD). Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
9-9-0766 Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): Add: For example, TI 811
mandates the use of G.711
Status: No Change
Page 146 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should have a procedure for pre-notification of
visits to critical facilities. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): Add: Procedures, Physical Security
9-7-0771 Highly
Management Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Collocated Service Providers should coordinate with Network Types(s): No Change
Network Operators and Property Managers on equipment
moves, adds or changes which could impact other Industry Role(s): No Change
occupants.
9-7-0772 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should consult Network Types(s): No Change
and update the synchronization plan whenever facility (e.g.,
intra-/inter-office or inter-provider interconnect circuits) Industry Role(s): No Change
rearrangements, additions, deletions, or consolidations are
9-9-0775 planned, and then verify the completed changes against the Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Changed
synchronization plan. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 147 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers should conduct and periodically re-
validate physical security assessments on critical network Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
facilities.
9-7-0776 Keywords(s): Add: Procedures Highly
Changed
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should optimize equipment Network Types(s): No Change
initializations to minimize service impact.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0777 Keywords(s): Add: Hardware, Software
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Network Types(s): No Change
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should ensure
that handling installation/interconnection of circuit and Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
signal paths continues to be performed by qualified
9-7-0778 communications technicians. Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish a means to allow for
coordination between cyber and physical security teams Industry Role(s): No Change
supporting preparedness, response, investigation and
9-7-0779 analysis. Keywords(s): Add: Business Continuity
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 148 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): No Change
Property Managers should evaluate the use of automatic
notification mechanisms to the local fire department at Industry Role(s): Add: Public Safety
critical facilities.
9-7-0781 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers should consider appropriate means for Network Types(s): No Change
providing their customers with information about their
traffic policies so that users may be informed when Industry Role(s): No Change
planning and utilizing their applications.
9-7-0804 Keywords(s): Delete: Cyber Security
Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Service Providers, Network Operators and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should work to establish operational standards
and practices that support broadband capabilities and Industry Role(s): No Change
interoperability (e.g., video, voice, data, wireless).
Keywords(s): Add: Documentation
9-9-0805
Delete: Cyber Security Important Changed
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 149 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
BEST PRACTICES – UNCHANGED (TAGLINES REMOVED)
Equipment Suppliers should provide cable management Network Types(s): No Change
features and installation instructions for network elements
that maintain cable bend radius, provide strain relief to Industry Role(s): No Change
prevent cable damage, ensure adequate cable connector
Highly
spacing for maintenance activities, and provide clear access Keywords(s): No Change
9-9-0423 Important Unchanged
for cable rearrangement (i.e. moves/add/deletes) and FRU
(Field Replaceable Unit) swaps. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should use software change control to Network Types(s): No Change
manage changes to source material used in the production
of their products. Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0426 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should support, clearly define and Network Types(s): No Change
document environmental variables in Management
Information Bases (MIB). Industry Role(s): No Change
Highly
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0433 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 150 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should use a change control and Network Types(s): No Change
release planning process to keep track of the changes to the
product and the corresponding documentation. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0562 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Network Types(s): No Change
synchronization coordinator(s) who has responsibility for
the network synchronization. The synchronization Industry Role(s): No Change
coordinator(s) should be accessible to their Network
Operations Centers. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-0604 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should provide indicating type control fuses on
the front of the power panels, including smaller distribution Industry Role(s): No Change
panels.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-9-0664 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should not use Network Types(s): No Change
low voltage disconnects or battery disconnects at central
office battery plants. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0676 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 151 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Network Types(s): No Change
Managers should only use rectifier sequence controllers
where necessary to limit load on the backup power Industry Role(s): No Change
generator.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-0677 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should develop Methods of Procedure (MOP) for
core infrastructure hardware and software growth and Industry Role(s): No Change
change activities and periodically review and update as
appropriate. Keywords(s): No Change
9-8-0590 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should implement minimum network
management controls in order to promote reliability of the Industry Role(s): No Change
interconnected network.
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-1064 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers and Property Managers should have policies and
procedures that address tailgating (i.e. following an Industry Role(s): No Change
authorized user through a doorway or vehicle gateway). At
critical sites, consider designing access points to minimize Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5006 Important Unchanged
tailgating.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 152 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should establish separation policies and
procedures that require the return of all corporate property Industry Role(s): No Change
and invalidate access to all corporate resources (physical
and logical) to coincide with the separation of employees, Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5015 Unchanged
contractors and vendors. Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider establishing corporate standards
and practices to drive enterprise-wide access control to a Industry Role(s): No Change
single card and single system architecture to mitigate the
security risks associated with administering and servicing Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5020 Important Unchanged
multiple platforms.
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should provide serial numbers on Network Types(s): No Change
critical network components (e.g., circuit packs, field
replaceable units). Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-6-5081 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should consider electronically Network Types(s): No Change
encoding a unique identifier into non-volatile memory of
critical elements (e.g., Field Replaceable Units, FRUs) for Industry Role(s): No Change
integrity and tracking.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-6-5086 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 153 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure Network Types(s): No Change
and periodically review intra-office diversity of critical
resources including power, timing source and signaling Industry Role(s): No Change
leads (e.g., SS7).
Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5076 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should, where Network Types(s): No Change
feasible, provide both physical and logical diversity of
critical facilities links (e.g., nodal, network element). Industry Role(s): No Change
Particular attention should be paid to telecom hotels and
other concentration points. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
9-7-5079 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should ensure appropriate physical Network Types(s): No Change
security controls are designed and tested into new products
and product upgrades (e.g., tamper resistant enclosures). Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5088 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should evaluate and manage risks (e.g., alternate
routing, rapid response to emergencies) associated with a Industry Role(s): No Change
concentration of infrastructure components.
Keywords(s): No Change Critically
9-7-5107 Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 154 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should, at the time of the event, coordinate with
the appropriate local, state, or federal agencies to facilitate Industry Role(s): No Change
timely access by their personnel to establish, restore or
maintain communications, through any governmental Keywords(s): No Change
9-9-5112 Important Unchanged
security perimeters (e.g., civil disorder, crime scene,
disaster area). Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should design their products to take Network Types(s): No Change
into consideration protection against the effects of corrosion
and contamination. Industry Role(s): No Change
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5198 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should provide network element Network Types(s): No Change
thermal specifications or other special requirements in order
to properly size Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning Industry Role(s): No Change
(HVAC) systems.
Keywords(s): No Change
9-7-5283 Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider establishing a geographically
diverse back-up Emergency Operations Center. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-6-1007 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 155 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should consider using lab, demonstration or
training equipment if replacement equipment is unavailable Industry Role(s): No Change
in disaster situations.
9-7-1040 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should optimize cell sites, including Network Types(s): No Change
relationships between neighboring cells, using a
combination of drive testing and network statistics. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0485 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should, where programs exist, coordinate with
local, state and/or federal emergency management and law Industry Role(s): No Change
enforcement agencies for pre-credentialing to help facilitate
9-7-0491 access by technicians to restricted areas during an event. Keywords(s): No Change Critically
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Property Managers should consider Network Types(s): No Change
connecting the power load to portable generators stored at
critical sites, and configuring them for auto-engage in the Industry Role(s): No Change
event of a failover.
9-7-0497 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 156 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators and Service Providers should, for easy Network Types(s): No Change
communication with subscribers and other operators and
providers, use specific role-based accounts (e.g., Industry Role(s): No Change
abuse@provider.net, ip-request@provider.net) versus
9-7-0515 general accounts (e.g., noc@provider.net) which will help Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
improve organizational response time and also reduce the
impact of Spam. Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should manage Network Types(s): No Change
the volatility of route advertisements in order to maintain
stable IP service and transport. Procedures and systems to Industry Role(s): No Change
manage and control route flapping at the network edge
9-7-0516
should be implemented. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers' network element (including OSS) Network Types(s): No Change
software should be backward compatible.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0538 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should share trend information Network Types(s): No Change
(availability, etc.) with their Network Operators and Service
Providers. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0539 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 157 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should develop an engineering design Network Types(s): No Change
for critical network elements and inter-office facilities that
addresses diversity, and utilize management systems to Industry Role(s): No Change
provision, track and maintain that inter-office and intra-
9-7-0549 office diversity. Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should continually enhance their Network Types(s): No Change
software development methodology to ensure effectiveness
by employing modern processes of assessment. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0555 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Network Types(s): No Change
Suppliers should verify front and rear stenciling on
equipment during installation for accurate identification. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0686 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should check for Network Types(s): No Change
current flow in cables with AC/DC clamp-on ammeters
before removing the associated fuses or opening the circuits Industry Role(s): No Change
during removal projects.
9-9-0694 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 158 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Network Operators should proactively communicate with Network Types(s): No Change
land owners regarding rights-of-way or easements near
critical buried facilities to prevent accidental service Industry Role(s): No Change
interruption.
9-7-0715 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators should encourage employees to become Network Types(s): No Change
proactive in preventing buried facilities damages.
Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0716 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Network Operators and Service Providers should track and Network Types(s): No Change
analyze facility outages taking action if any substantial
negative trend arises or persists. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0738 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Equipment Suppliers should periodically review the results Network Types(s): No Change
of root cause analysis to ensure that the least impacting
methods for fault recovery are being used. Industry Role(s): No Change
9-7-0744 Keywords(s): No Change
Important Unchanged
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 159 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Equipment Suppliers should provide a mechanism for Network Types(s): No Change
feature activation or deactivation that is not service
impacting to end-users (e.g., avoid re-boot, re-start or re- Industry Role(s): No Change
initialization).
9-9-0750 Keywords(s): No Change Highly
Unchanged
Important
Reference(s): No Change
Status: No Change
Page 160 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
7 Appendix 2 – Best Practice Supporting Element Definitions
BEST PRACTICES NETWORK ROLES:
• Cable:
An entity that provides terrestrial communications through direct connectivity,
predominantly by coaxial cable or optical fiber, between the serving central office and
end user location(s).
• Internet/Data:
An entity that provides terrestrial internet and/or data communications through direct
connectivity, predominantly by wire, coaxial cable, or optical fiber, between facilities-
based and non-facilities-based serving networks and end user location(s).
• Satellite:
An entity that provides telephony, internet, and/or paging communications through
satellite connectivity, predominantly by satellite beams, inter-satellite links, or MSS
gateway earth stations between a terrestrially-based control center and end user
location(s).
• Wireless:
An entity that provides terrestrial communications through radio spectrum allocation,
predominantly by cellular architecture and/or CMRS paging between the terrestrially-
based mobile switching center and end user location(s).
• Wireline:
An entity that provides terrestrial communications through direct connectivity,
predominantly by wire or optical fiber, between the serving central office and end user
location(s).
BEST PRACTICES INDUSTRY ROLES:
• Property Manager
The responsible party for the day-to-day operation of any facility including a facility
owner or “landlord”, the majority owner of a shared facility, the owner’s representative,
a professional property management company, a realty management company, tenant
representative, a facility provider, or a facility manager, usually involved in facility
operations and providing service to a communications enterprise.
• Equipment Supplier
An organization whose business is to supply network operators and service providers
with equipment or software required to render reliable network service.
• Government
Page 161 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
Any government agency at federal, state or local level.
• Network Operator
The entity responsible for the development, provision and maintenance of real-time
networking services and for operating the corresponding networks.
• Public Safety
An organization that is a key contributor to E9-1-1 reliability and resiliency in the Public
Safety sector.
• Service Provider
An organization that provides services for content providers and for users of a computer
network. The services may include access to the computer network, content hosting,
server of a private message handling system, news server, etc. A company, organization,
administration, business, etc., that sells, administers, maintains, charges for, etc., the
service. The service provider may or may not be the operator of the network.
BEST PRACTICES RATING & RANKING:
• Critical (1) Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
– Significantly reduce the potential for a catastrophic failure of critical
communications network infrastructure and/or services (e.g., telecommunication,
public safety, energy sector, financial, etc.).
– Materially limit and/or contain the geographic area affected by a communications
failure from cascading to other or adjacent geographic areas.
– Affect critical communications networks (e.g., SS7) for all network
configurations, independent of size.
– Preserve priority communications for key personnel involved in disaster response
and recovery.
• Highly Important (2) Best Practices include those which meet any of the following
standards:
– Improve the likelihood of emergency call completion, with caller information, to
the appropriate response agency (i.e., Public Safety Answering Point), ensuring
access to emergency communications for all callers.
– Improve the efficiency and promote the availability of networks and the
likelihood of call completion and message transmission (e.g., e-mail, instant
messaging) for key personnel involved in disaster response and recovery.
– Improve detection of network events by network operators and service providers.
Page 162 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
– Implementation has improved network reliability but may not be applicable for
all networks or companies.
• Important (3) Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
– Promote sound provisioning and maintenance or reliable, resilient networks,
services, and equipment, but were not otherwise classified.
– Common sense BPs that entities generally adopt.
BEST PRACTICES RECOMMENDED KEYWORDS:
• Access Control
Limiting and/or documenting physical access to buildings, equipment and/or systems.
• Buildings
Physical structures that house communications equipment or employees.
• Business Continuity
Corporate wide program that has been established for the purpose of internal planning
for and responding to emergency situations impacting services, employees or assets.
• Contractors & Vendors
Non-employees working on behalf of the company or providing goods/services (not
visitors).
• Corporate Ethics
Corporate values and integrity for organizations supporting public communications
infrastructure.
• Cyber Security
The protection of information and systems against unauthorized disclosure, transfer,
modification, or destruction, whether accidental or intentional.
• Disaster Recovery
Steps taken after an emergency event has occurred to recover from the event.
• Documentation
Information concerning the operation/location of communications equipment and
networks. This DOES NOT necessarily include everything written but may include
information in a draft format.
• Emergency Preparedness
Steps taken prior to an emergency event occurring that will facilitate the restoration from
the event.
• Encryption
Steps taken to make data unusable to any other person(s) or system(s) other than for
Page 163 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
whom it is intended.
• Essential Services
Ensuring the continued operation of vital services (911, priority circuits).
• Facilities – Transport
Interoffice facilities used to carry communications (e.g., copper, fiber, free space).
• Fire
Preventing, controlling, or extinguishing combustion of materials at or near
telecommunications equipment.
• Guard Force
People tasked for safeguarding facilities, physical assets, and personnel.
• Hardware
Equipment used to support communications networks.
• Human Resources
Processes and procedures relating to personnel within a company.
• Industry Cooperation
Collaboration between separate business entities.
• Information Protection
Safeguarding the confidentiality and integrity of a company’s proprietary information.
• Intrusion Detection
Actions taken to alert users or administrators when an unauthorized entity has attempted
or has succeeded in accessing a system or database. This denotes cyber intrusion and
does not cover physical intrusion.
• Liaison
Maintaining communications through a working relationship with other entities.
• Material Movement
Physical movement of materials (i.e., logistics).
• Network Design
Planning and configuration of communication networks.
• Network Element
Unique equipment that is a component of a network.
• Network Interoperability
Interaction of networks that must work together to provide communications.
• Network Operations
Tasks required to operate a network.
Page 164 of 165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 7
September 2014
Final Report
• Network Provisioning
Steps taken to activate equipment/services in a network.
• Pandemic
Related to the preparation or reaction to wide-spread epidemic or epidemic in a specific
area.
• Physical Security Management
Anything having to do with safeguarding the physical assets of the corporation.
• Policy
High level management statements of a desired condition (not detailed procedures).
• Power
Electrical systems (AC/DC) used to operate communications equipment.
• Procedures
Instructions for specific tasks.
• Public Safety
Related to emergencies and 9-1-1 services used by individuals or corporations.
• Security Systems
Hardware/Software devices specifically used to monitor and control security.
• Software
Code specific to running communications equipment.
• Supervision
Direct management of tasks workers.
• Technical Support
Providing assistance in installing, maintaining, or restoring equipment.
• Training & Awareness
Company provided instruction or other means of education on specific topics.
• Visitors
Individuals who are not employees/contractors/vendors.
Page 165 of 165
