PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/threat_guide_english_final.pdf:
THREAT and INTIMIDATION
U.S. Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation RESPONSE GUIDE
IN-PERSON PHONED ELECTRONIC CYBER
THREAT THREAT MESSAGE THREAT ATTACKS
A physical IN-PERSON THREAT is when you are in A PHONED THREAT is a threat An ELECTRONIC MESSAGE THREAT A CYBER ATTACK can
imminent danger because of the close proximity of the received by telephone. You should try is a threat received through direct compromise your electronic
person making the threat. You have three options: to get as much information on the messaging, email, or social media. It device and expose personal
caller and the threat as possible, may include threats of blackmail or information.
1.Run: Identify an escape route. Drop any belongings that
unless the threat is nearby or may adverse consequences if the recipient
may slow you down. If possible, help others escape.  Use strong passphrases and do
imminently harm you or others. does not comply.
Call 911. not use the same passphrase for
2.Hide: Hide away from view of the threat. Lock doors or  Remain calm and do not hang up.  Do not open an electronic message or multiple websites.
block entries. Silence your cell phone (including vibrate  Keep the caller on as long as possible attachment from unknown senders.  Set anti-virus and anti-malware
mode) and remain silent until the threat is over. and try soliciting information to  Do not communicate on social media applications to automatically
3.Fight: Fighting should be a last resort and only when determine whether the threat is with unknown or unsolicited update.
your life is in imminent danger. Attempt to incapacitate specific, realistic, or poses immediate individuals.  Apply system and software
the threat. Act with as much physical aggression as danger to you or others.  Make sure your security settings are updates as soon as they become
possible.  If possible, signal others nearby to set to the highest level of protection. available.
listen and notify law enforcement.  Apply two-factor authentication.
A verbal IN-PERSON THREAT one that does not place If an electronic threat is received:
 Copy any information from the phone’s  Backup data regularly.
the recipient in immediate danger or is intended to be
 Do not delete the message. Forensic
electronic display.
carried out later. If you suspect that you have
examination may uncover important
 Write the exact wording of the threat.
been a victim of a cyber attack:
 Write down or otherwise record the threat exactly as it details.
 Record the call if possible.
was communicated.  Leave the message open on the  Do not delete or alter your
 Be available to discuss the details with
 Record as many descriptive details as possible about computer. computer systems.
law enforcement personnel.
the person who made the threat: name, appearance,  Immediately notify law enforcement.  Immediately contact your
skin color, sex, height, weight, hair and eye color, voice,  Print, photograph, or copy the financial institutions to protect
clothing, or any other distinguishing features. message, subject line, date, and time. your accounts from identity theft.
 Report the threat to law enforcement.  Preserve all electronic evidence.  Change passphrases and monitor
accounts for suspicious activity.
If you are in immediate physical danger, call 911.
If you experience a threat, please contact your local FBI field office (listings available at www.fbi.gov)
or submit a tip via 1-800-CALLFBI (or 1-800-225-5324) or via www.fbi.gov/tips.
You can also make an anonymous tip to the FBI by phone or online.THREAT and INTIMIDATION
U.S. Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation
RESPONSE GUIDE
Who should I contact if I experience threats or intimidation: local police or the FBI?
 If you or others are in immediate physical danger, call the local police by dialing 911.
 If you experience a threat associated with a federal crime, contact your local FBI field office (listings at www.fbi.gov) by calling 1‐800‐CALLFBI (or 1‐800‐225‐5324)
or via www.fbi.gov/tips. Examples include threats from an agent of a foreign government, organized crime, or a government official. Your report can be anonymous.
 Not all incidents meet the FBI’s investigative threshold. If you are the victim of an incident that does not meet the threshold of a federal crime, you may need to
report it to your local police department. Local and state jurisdictions have different thresholds for investigating suspected crimes.
What can I expect if I am interviewed by the FBI?
 An FBI agent can meet with you at an FBI field office or at another location.
 The FBI will ask you to provide as much information as possible about the perpetrator and details of the threat you have experienced.
 The FBI will ask for your contact information to follow‐up with you if needed.
 The FBI will attempt to protect your identity and confidentiality.
 If appropriate, an FBI Victim Specialist may be present during the interview to provide information and support, or they may contact you after your interview by phone or mail.
What is the threshold for the FBI to investigate a complaint and/or initiate an investigation?
 The FBI is able to investigate threats that violate US federal law and imply harm or danger to the recipient.
 The ability of the US Government to prosecute individuals for threat‐related charges is contingent upon several factors, such as: the quality of the evidence, the
ability to identify the individuals who perpetrated the action, the identification of a conspiracy, and/or the ability to arrest the offending individuals.
What can I expect if the FBI initiates an investigation?
 If the FBI believes a federal crime may have been committed, one or more FBI special agents will conduct an investigation. As part of the investigation, the special
agents will gather evidence, which may include an interview with you and other victims.
 You may also be asked to describe your experience before a federal grand jury.
 A thorough investigation will be completed. The investigation may take a long time to finish, and you will not be updated on day‐to‐day case developments. Every
effort will be made to tell you about major events in an investigation, such as an arrest or indictment. The FBI is committed to providing such information to you
before it is released to the public, when possible. However, the FBI must always be careful not to reveal sensitive information that could hurt the investigation or
increase danger to law enforcement.
 An FBI Victim Specialist will be available to provide identified victims with support, information, and referrals for any local resources that may be needed.
Even if reporting the details of how you were threatened or intimidated does not result in an investigation, it will likely assist other victims by helping the FBI track threats and identify trends.
FBI FIELD OFFICE CONTACT INFORMATION LISTED BY CITY AND STATE IS AVAILABLE AT WWW.FBI.GOV. IF YOU ARE IN IMMINENT DANGER, CALL 911.
