PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRIC-III-WG9-Final-Report-Pt2.pdf:
June, 2012 WORKING GROUP 9
CAP Implementation
Final Report – Part 2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief 3
1.1 Executive Summary 3
2 Introduction 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure 4
2.2 Working Group 9 Team Members 5
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology 6
3.1 Objective 6
3.2 Scope 6
3.3 Methodology 6
3.3.1 Sub-Group Structure 7
3.3.2 Collaboration via Portal 7
4 Background 8
4.1 Emergency Alert System (EAS) 8
5 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations 10
5.1 Analysis 10
5.2 Findings 11
7 References 14
Page 2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary1
The Emergency Alert System is the primary warning system that provides the President with the
means to address the nation during a national crisis. Over the years it has gone through several
transformations but until recently can best be described as an analog delivery system.
On May 31, 2007, the FCC adopted a Second Report & Order to strengthen the development of
next generation technology for the Emergency Alert System (EAS).2 This R&O requires EAS
participants to accept messages using OASIS Standard, Common Alerting Protocol Version 1.2 digital
delivery (any further reference to CAP implies this version of the standard). Subsequently, on
November 18, 2010 the FCC adopted the Fourth Report & Order to establish the deadline for
EAS participants to start receiving CAP messages no later than June 30, 2012.3 On January 10,
2012 the FCC released the Fifth Report and Order which further clarified the process to receive
and transmit CAP messages for the EAS and to streamline the Part 11 rules.4
CSRIC Working Group 9 was established to provide recommendations and best practice for the
deployment of CAP and to provide an overall progress report on the first months of CAP
implementation.
WG9’s findings include two important issues:
1. OASIS Standard, Common Alerting Protocol Version 1.2 provides an optional means of
securing resource elements (audio, graphics, documents or other multimedia), but its use
is not currently required by the IPAWS profile.
2. After ECIG issued its version 1.0 Implementation Guide, FEMA instructed ECIG in a
1 What is an Executive Summary?; Source:
http://www.2myprofessor.com/Common/executive_summary.htm
2 FCC Second Report and Order, in the Matter of the Review of the Emergency Alert System,
EB Docket No. 04-296, Adopted: May 31, 2007
3 FCC Fourth Report and Order, in the Matter of the Review of the Emergency Alert System, EB
Docket No. 04-296, Adopted: September 15, 2011
4 FCC Fifth Report and Order, in the Matter of the Review of the Emergency Alert System, EB
Docket No. 04-296, Adopted: January 9, 2012
Page 3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
memorandum to limit audio to MP3 only. ECIG concurred with this and noted it on their
web site, but has not yet issued an update to their 1.0 Implementation Guide.
5
2 Introduction
CSRIC was established as a federal advisory committee designed to provide recommendations
to the Commission regarding best practices and actions the Commission may take to ensure
optimal operability, security, reliability, and resiliency of communications systems, including
telecommunications, media, and public safety communications systems.
Due to the large scope of the CSRIC mandate, the committee then divided into a set of Working
Groups, each of which was designed to address individual issue areas. In total, 10 different
Working Groups were created, including Working Group 9 on EAS CAP Implementation.
Working Group 9 officially started its work in December 2011 and was given until March 2012
to produce their First Report. The focus for Working Group 9 is to review the Fifth R&O
(released January 10, 2012) on CAP deployment, provide FCC recommendations for best
practices to facilitate CAP implementation on a national level, state and local level and identify
technological challenges. The second report due in June 2012 will review the progress of CAP
implementation by EAS Participants for both national and state level.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) III
CSRIC Steering Committee
Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Chair Co-Chairs Chair Chair Co-Chairs Co-Chairs
Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Working Group 5:
Working Group 1: Working Group 2: Working Group 3: Working Group 4: Working Group 6: Working Group 7: Working Group 9:
DNSSEC Working Group 8:
Next Generation Next Generation E911 Location Network Security Secure BGP Botnet Legacy Broadcast Working Group 10:
Implementation E911 Best
911 Alerting Accuracy Best Practices Deployment Remediation Alerting Issues 911 Prioritization
Practices for ISPs Practices
5 Writing@CSU; Source: http://writing.colostate.edu/guides/processes/science/pop2a3.cfm
Page 4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
2.2 Working Group 9 Team Members
Working Group 9 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Al Kenyon Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Andy Scott NCTA
Bill Marriott Comlabs
Bill Robertson Digital Alert Systems (Monroe Electronics, Inc.)
Bob Sherry Intrado
Chris Homer (Chair) DIRECTV
Clay Freinwald Washington SECC
Daryl Parker TFT
Donald Walker GRM
Edward Czarnecki (Co-Chair) Monroe Electronics, Inc.
Gary Timm Wisconsin SECC
Harold Price SAGE Alerting Systems
Jeb Benedict CenturyLink
Jeff Staigh Univision
Jim Gorman Gorman-Redlich
Kelly Williams National Association of Broadcasters
Larry Estlack Michigan Association of Broadcasters
Matthew Straeb GSS
Michael Hooker T Mobile
Mike Nawrocki Verizon
Ron Boyer Boyer Broadband
Tim Dunn T-Mobile
Eric Ehrenreich FCC Liaison
Doug Semon Time Warner Cable
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
Page 5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
In its January 2012 EAS Fifth Report and Order (EB Docket No. 04-296), the Commission
sought to continue the process to transform the Emergency Alert System (EAS) into a more
technologically advanced alerting system by revising Part 11 Emergency Alert System (rules) to
specify the manner in which EAS Participants must be able to receive alert messages formatted
in the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) and streamlining Part 11 rules to enhance their
effectiveness and provide clarity.
The Fifth Report & Order is the second of two orders that implement Part 11 rule changes
stemming from the Third Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making (FNPRM). The previous
order, Fourth Report & Order, addresses the single issue of establishing a new deadline of June
30, 2012 for meeting the various CAP-related requirements that the Fifth R&O codifies. The
Working Group was asked to review the new order to provide insight, implementation
recommendations and status. In this Fifth R&O Report, the Working Group shall also
recommend actions the FCC could take to improve EAS as it incorporates the new CAP
protocol.
3.2 Scope6
Per the Working Group 9 charter, the group found it essential to begin with an initial focus on
the FCC Part 11 Rules governing the EAS as it involves best practices to facilitate CAP
implementation leading up to and beyond the June 30, 2012 deadline. The committee will be
working with real-time data and events as they unfold during the roll out. Based on results of
these events the group will gain valuable insight and metrics that will be used for future
planning and rulemaking.
3.3 Methodology7
The Working Group 9 uses a collaborative, inclusive approach to its work. Given the vast array
of expertise the WG-9 members brought to bear on this effort, it is critical to provide a multitude
of forums and mediums through which participants could express their opinions and help shape
6 Elements of a Research Proposal and Report; Source: http://www.statpac.com/research-
papers/research-proposal.htm
7 Elements of a Research Proposal and Report; Source: http://www.statpac.com/research-
papers/research-proposal.htm
Page 6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
this Final Report. The following section details the methodology through which WG-9 achieved
this objective.
3.3.1 Sub-Group Structure
After its initial set of meetings, the Chair and Co-Chair of Working Group 9 decided to review
the structure of the Working Group and develop a plan that would allow for WG-9 to proceed
with its study in an organized fashion which leveraged the diverse backgrounds of the Group’s
membership.
As such, WG-9 broke into two Sub-Groups; WG-9-1 is focusing on National implementation
and best practices of CAP, WG 9-2 focusing on the progress of CAP implementation and best
practices at the state & local level. The two Sub-Groups have moved forward with independent
conference calls that focused almost exclusively on the portions of the CAP implementation
most applicable to their expertise.
Each Sub-Group has a Lead who developes an agenda and framed conversation and discussion
amongst the participants. On some of the more divisive issues the Lead worked to bring
members closer to consensus and encouraged open dialogue designed to find common ground.
3.3.2 Collaboration via Portal
In addition to the regular conference calls, an online collaboration portal was designed and
implemented for use by the WG-9 participants. The portal is accessible to all Working Group
members throughout the duration of their work on behalf the CSRIC. The table below details
some of the most prominent capabilities featured on the Portal and how they were used by the
members of the Working Group 9.
Document Collaboration space where members posted, reviewed, and
Repository edited documents
Forum Open space where issues were discussed amongst members
Calendar Central location where all relevant meetings and events were
documented
From its inception, the portal became a useful tool for the Working Group as they shared ideas,
resources, and collaborated on common documents, including this Final Report. Given the
disparate locations from which the WG-9 members originated, having an online collaboration
tool was instrumental to the successful completion of the Working Group’s final product.
Page 7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
4 Background
From the onset of WG-9’s work, close attention was paid to the researching relevant topics,
including the EAS, the Integrated Public Alerts and Warning System (IPAWS), the CAP, and
the Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS) and other alerting methodologies. Several
members of the 9 Working Group brought specialized expertise in one or more of these areas
and are also members of WG-2 that is focused on future developments in EAS systems.
4.1 Emergency Alert System (EAS)
EAS is the primary national warning system that provides the President with the means to
address the nation during a national crisis. State and local officials also use EAS to originate
warning messages about imminent or ongoing hazards in specific regions. Three Federal
agencies share responsibility for EAS at the national level: the FCC, FEMA, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Weather Service (NWS).
Functionally, EAS is a hierarchical alert message distribution system. Initiating an EAS
message, whether at the national, state, or local level, requires the message originator (e.g.
FEMA, which initiates EAS alerts at the national level on behalf of the President) to deliver
specially-encoded messages to a broadcast station-based transmission network that, in turn,
delivers the messages to individual broadcasters, cable operators, and other EAS Participants.
EAS Participants maintain special encoding and decoding equipment that can receive the
message for retransmission to other EAS Participants and to end users (broadcast listeners and
cable and other service subscribers).
On May 31, 2007 the FCC adopted a Second Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (EB Docket 04-296, FCC-07-109A1) (Erratum, DA-07-4002A1) to strengthen the
EAS and to promote the development of fully digital next generation technologies and delivery
systems for EAS. The Second Report and Order requires EAS participants to accept messages
formatted using CAP, the groundwork for next generation EAS delivery systems, no later than
180 days after FEMA announces its adoption of standards in each case. CAP is intended to
ensure the efficient and rapid transmission of EAS alerts to the public in a variety of formats
(e.g. text, audio and video) and via different channels (e.g. broadcast, cable, satellite, and other
networks).
On May 25, 2011, the FCC adopted the Third FNPRM, in which they sought comment on a
wide range of tentative conclusions and proposed revisions to the Part 11 rules that would more
fully delineate and integrate into the Part 11 rules the CAP-related mandates adopted in the
Second Report and Order. The Commission received 30 comments and 12 reply comments in
response to the Third FNPRM.
Page 8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
Subsequently, on November 18, 2010, the FCC adopted the Fourth Report and Order in this
docket, in which they amended section §11.56 of the EAS rules to require EAS Participants to
be able to receive CAP formatted EAS alerts no later than June 30, 2012.
Finally, in the January 2012 FCC Fifth Report and Order on EAS (EB Docket No. 04-296), the
Commission sought to continue the process to transform the Emergency Alert System (EAS)
into a more technologically advanced alerting system by revising Part 11 Emergency Alert
System (rules) to specify the manner in which EAS Participants must be able to receive alert
messages formatted in the Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) and to streamline Part 11 rules to
enhance their effectiveness and to provide clarity.
Page 9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
5 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
5.1 Analysis8
CSRIC WG9 is examining a broad range of questions relating to the usage of CAP for next-
generation EAS;
CAP Distribution
1. What CAP-EAS Distribution Network architectures exist at the federal, state and
local level?
2. What are the physical and data components of these systems?
3. What are the interface requirements?
EAS Network Requirements
1. What is sufficient capacity to relay messages?
2. What availability is required to maintain service?
3. How does authentication work?
4. How is data security maintained? Data accuracy?
A specific initial area of investigation by WG9 pertains to the impact of the FCC’s Fifth Report
and Order on EAS (released 10 January 2012) on CAP EAS migration. WG9’s initial
discussions, and by extension of focus of this particular report, are on two fundamental issues
emerging from the Report and Order:
1. Prohibition on the use of text to speech technology on CAP EAS devices by EAS
Participants
2. Creation of a “streamlined” certification regime for CAP EAS equipment, which
includes three distinct classes of CAP EAS equipment, with slightly varying certification
requirements, based on the nature of that equipment.
8 Elements of a Research Proposal and Report; Source: http://www.statpac.com/research-
papers/research-proposal.htm
Page 10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
5.2 Findings
5.2.1 Authentication Audio Resources in CAP EAS Messaging
The Working Group took note of the fact that while there is optional protection for data
referenced by CAP resources, for example, audio in a "uri", this protection is not mandatory.
This raises the potential of the resource being modified outside the protection of the digital
signature on the CAP message itself.
5.2.2 Audio file types (codecs) for CAP EAS messaging
The Working Group observed an apparent discrepancy between the standards/specifications
incorporated by the FCC’s revised rules on EAS, and additional guidance provided by FEMA
IPAWS to the EAS-CAP Industry Group.9 Specifically, after ECIG issued its 1.0 version of the
implementation guide, FEMA instructed ECIG in a memorandum that
“IPAWS agrees that the audio encoding should be constrained to allow MP3 ONLY
audio formats encoded as described in § 3.5.2 (1): “mono, 64 kbit/s data, preferably
sampled at 22.05 kHz or otherwise at 44.1 kHz.” IPAWS agrees that the <mimeType>
element should be appended with the file type name (as in “audio/x-ipaws-audio-mp3”)
to eliminate the need for file type determination by inspection. These constraints will
only apply to messages transmitted through IPAWS and intended for EAS distribution.
EAS devices retrieving messages from other sources are not so constrained. This memo
(to be published on the ECIG website) in addition to the Implementation Guide should
suffice as guidance documentation, and no revision to the CAP standard or Profile are
required.” [emphasis in the original].
However, the ECIG Implementation Guide v1.0 – as incorporated by the FCC – allows for both
the mp3 and wav audio file formats. The original IPAWS profile v1.0 does not restrict audio
file formats.
The Working Group observed that all known manufacturers of CAP EAS receiving equipment
(integrated encoder/decoders and intermediary devices) currently support the mp3 file format, so
there should little to no impact on manufacturers and EAS participants. The Working Group
observed that there may be an impact on alert origination systems/technologies, if they do not
currently support the ability to generate an MP3 file formatted audio resource.
9 “MEMORANDUM to the EAS-CAP Industry Group (ECIG) from the Integrated Public Alert
and Warning System (IPAWS) Program Management Office regarding the ECIG IG
Concurrence Memorandum of August 9, 2010 (dated December 2, 2010) http://eas-
cap.org/ECIG_IG_Concurrence_Memorandum%20v21.pdf
Page 11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
5.3 Recommendations & Best Practices
5.3.1 Recommendation Authentication Audio Resources in CAP EAS Messaging
The Working Group’s recommendation is that any CAP messages intended for dissemination
via the IPAWS aggregator should include a digest element, as referenced in the CAP 1.2
standard. The digest element is “optional” in the CAP 1.2 standard. According to the OASIS
standard, the code representing the digital digest (“hash”) computed from the resource file
(OPTIONAL) is calculated using the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA-1) per [FIPS 180-2].10 The
Working Group suggests that this approach would provide for authentication of resource
elements. The Working Group concurred that the message origination systems/technologies
would need to handle the action of attaching the message digest, not the CAP EAS receiving
equipment.
The Working Group recommended that use of the “digest element” should be required when a
resource element is referenced in a CAP message, when intended for CAP EAS.
To this end, the working group further recommended that ECIG should consider revising its
Implementation Guide to include a requirement to use the digest element for authentication of
resource elements.
The Working Group further recommends that state and local alert system originators that do not
transit CAP messaging through the IPAWS aggregator should likewise implement improved
mechanisms for authentication of resource elements, including usage of the CAP digest element.
5.3.2 Recommendation Audio file types for CAP EAS messaging
In light of the FEMA concurrence memo to ECIG of 10 December 2010, specifying mp3 usage
only, the Working Group agreed on a recommendation for ECIG to update their implementation
guide to specify file/MIME types to MP3 audio only.
We further agreed on a recommendation that, if amending the standards incorporated by
reference represents a substantive change to a rule section in 47 CFR Part 11, then the FCC
should only act if a change to a rule section would be substantive, undertake its public comment
process to amend this reference in Part 11 (e.g., from ECIG 1.0 to a updated version of the
Implementation Guide, and/or adding reference to the FEMA concurrence memorandum). The
Working Group acknowledged its understanding that this would require a notice and comment
rulemaking proceeding prior to implementing the change.
Short of an additional rule change, the FCC should clarify whether the FEMA concurrence
10 OASIS Common Alerting Protocol Version 1.2, 01 July 2010
Page 12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
memorandum suffices as guidance documentation, without further specification the revised EAS
rules.
5.3.3 Best Practice
The Working Group observed that – on this issue - the CAP standard or existing IPAWS profile
1.0 may not provide sufficiently specific guidance for CAP message originators (developers).
We observe that FEMA may be well served by evaluating two options:
1. The FEMA aggregator could actively have to inspect for “illegal” file types, and/or
2. Developers should be strongly encouraged (if not required) to subject their systems
to the existing FEMA conformity assessment for originators, to ensure proper
conformance to the audio file specification. It was our understanding that the
original IPAWS conformity process (completed by some 5 systems) had their support
of mp3 origination evaluated. This recommendation would dovetail the draft section
on conformity under consideration by WG9-2.
3. We observed that the second option (conformity assessment) could be the least-
resource intensive method for FEMA to achieve several common objectives, since
their conformity standards are already developed, and the resource requirements
(including costs) would be borne by the developer by using NIMS P-TAC as the
evaluator.
Page 13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 9
Final Report March, 2012
6 References

 EAS CAP Industry Group, EAS-CAP Implementation Guide Subcommittee, CAP EAS
Implementation Guide, Version 1.0, 17 May 2010, http://www.eas-cap.org/.
 Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Title
47, Part 11, http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=47:1.0.1.1.11&idno=47.
 MEMORANDUM to the EAS-CAP Industry Group (ECIG) from the Integrated Public
Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) Program Management Office regarding the ECIG
IG Concurrence Memorandum of August 9, 2010 (dated December 2, 2010) http://eas-
cap.org/ECIG_IG_Concurrence_Memorandum%20v21.pdf
 FEMA IPAWS, http://www.fema.gov/emergency/ipaws/.
 OASIS Common Alerting Protocol Version 1.2, OASIS Standard, 01 July 2010,
http://docs.oasis-open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/CAP-v1.2.pdf.
 OASIS Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) v1.2 USA Integrated Public Alert and
Warning System Profile Version 1.0 – Committee Specification 01, 13 October 2009,
http://docs.oasis-open.org/emergency/cap/v1.2/ipaws-profile/v1.0/cs01/.
 Specific Area Message Encoding (SAME), http://www.weather.gov/nwr/nwrsame.htm.
Page 14
