PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_WG%209_Transport_Final_Recommendations_11-24-2014.pdf:
December, 2014
WORKING GROUP 9
Infrastructure Sharing During Emergencies
Transport Subcommittee
Shared ServicesThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
Table of Contents
1. Results in Brief ................................................................................................................................................................................ 3
2. Introduction and Background ................................................................................................................................................... 4
2.1 Working Group 9 – Transport Subgroup Team Members ................................................................................... 4
3. Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................................................................ 4
3.1. Objective .................................................................................................................................................................................... 4
3.2. Scope .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 4
3.3. Methodology ............................................................................................................................................................................ 4
4. Analysis, Findings, and Recommendations ......................................................................................................................... 5
4.1. Analysis ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 5
4.1.1. Root Cause Analysis ........................................................................................................................................................ 5
4.1.2. Review current best practices associated with external-environment (weather) which might
mitigate last-mile provisioning/restoration post-disaster ........................................................................................... 8
4.1.3. Assess Viability of “Sharing” Excess Transport Among or Between Segments ............................... 10
4.1.4. Assess Viability of “Stand-by” or “On-the-Fly” Transport Services ...................................................... 10
5. Recommendations .................................................................................................................................................................... 11
APPENDIX A: Glossary ................................................................................................................................................................... 14
APPENDIX B: Resource Materials Reviewed ........................................................................................................................ 15
APPENDIX C: Communications Sector Network Architecture Diagrams ................................................................ 16
APPENDIX D: Microwave, VSAT, and Dark Fiber Detailed Discussion ...................................................................... 20
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
1. RESULTS IN BRIEF
1.1. Executive Summary
The Transport Sub-Committee of CSRIC WG 9 was tasked to review and assess various methods to
acquire, or share TRANSPORT infrastructure in the aftermath of a major event, to compensate for the
loss of transport assets. The scope of this initiative focused solely on creating or refining best practices
for the Wireline, Wireless and Cable infrastructure segments. The scope of this initiative does NOT
focus on transport failures due to lack of power, nor does it focus on non-disaster, transport failures
(e.g. backhoe incidents).
The sub-committee found that the most common point of transport failure during a disaster is the
“unprotected” connection between the End-User (customer) and the Network or Service Provider
(wireless, wireline or cable). As such, the subcommittee chose to focus on determining whether there
were alternate transport options that could be shared or leveraged in the immediate aftermath of a
disaster to replace that “last-mile” portion.
The sub-committee found that there is little or no shared, last-mile transport infrastructure that access
providers could share or provision dynamically (within hours). There are opportunities however, for
the End User and/or Service Provider to utilize alternate transport modes to augment or create
redundant last-mile segments, but these alternate transport options do not lend themselves to on-the-
fly provisioning. These alternate transport options are briefly reviewed within this document.
Instead, these alternate transport modes must be considered and planned in advance to ensure
sufficient capacity, and an optimized cut-over protocol is in place, if needed.
Many end users with critical services take advantage of the Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP)
Program1 to ensure that restoration of their critical circuits is prioritized before other restoration
efforts. For some users, however, prioritized restoration of circuits may not provide the degree of
reliability required. Clear communication by the end user to the network or service provider will
provide the means to mutually develop plans and protocols that will meet the end user’s requirements.
Unfortunately, the sub-committee also learned that “customer demand for unprotected services is
increasing”2, and it is not clear that these customers fully understand the implications of buying
services in this manner.
The sub-committee endorses recommendations previously made by the Network Reliability Steering
Committee3 specifically:
 Customers purchasing protected or unprotected lightpaths, circuits or other transport services
should consider reviewing the ATIS Network Diversity Assurance Initiative (NDAI) report
regarding bilateral contractual arrangements to manage diversity for critical services.
The subcommittee continues to endorse the outreach efforts of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to build awareness of the TSP Program, for the prioritized
restoration afforded by this program may meet some end user needs.
1 http://www.dhs.gov/telecommunications-service-priority-tsp
2 ATIS-0100038, Analysis of Large DS3 FCC Reportable Outages”, 2013, Alliance for Telecommunications Industry
Solutions (ATIS), Network Reliability Steering Committee (ATIS-0100038)
3 ibid
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
2. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
2.1 WORKING GROUP 9 – TRANSPORT SUBGROUP TEAM MEMBERS
Company Name Company Name
AT&T Steven E. Martin Ericsson-ATIS Ernie Gallo
Battery Corp Tom Cooleen HHS Ingrid Caples
Battery Corp Dick Scott Federal Reserve Wayne Pacine
Cat5 Resources Cindy Perez Federal Reserve Bank - NY Lola Judge
Cat5 Resources K Catalano FS-ISAC Denise Anderson
CenturyLink Kathryn Condello Level 3 Jeff Ary
Comcast Lynette Van Someren Pacific Power Rentals Richard Qualey
Commscope Anil Trehan T-Mobile Jay Naillon
Cox Communications Jim Shortal T-Mobile Harold Salters
Cox Communications Mark Peay T-Mobile Joan Vaughn
CTIA Rick Kemper US Treasury Kate Kingberger
ENP Robert Oenning FEMA Jarrett Devine
3. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE, AND METHODOLOGY
3.1. OBJECTIVE
The Transport Sub-Committee of CSRIC WG 9 was tasked to assess various methods to acquire or share
TRANSPORT infrastructure in the aftermath of a major event in order to compensate for the loss of
transport assets. This working group will examine various options and recommend a set of best
practices Network Operators, Service Providers and End Users could adopt to sustain critical
communications in future emergencies.
3.2. SCOPE
The scope of this initiative is focused solely on creating or refining best practices for the Wireline,
Wireless and Cable infrastructure segments. The scope of this initiative does NOT focus on transport
failures due to lack of power (being addressed separately), nor does it focus on transport failures (ex.
backhoe incidents) not associated with major events. The scope of this initiative will incorporate as
appropriate, Best Practice considerations for Network Operators, Service Providers and End Users
relying on transport for critical communications (Critical Users)
3.3. METHODOLOGY
To address the questions posed to the Transport sub-committee, members reviewed existing
documentation and received briefings from subject matter experts to better understand the following:
 Root Causes of Transport Outages
 Current Best Practices Associated with Transport Outages
 Viability of “Sharing” Excess Transport Among or Between Access Segments
 Viability of Alternate Transport Modes for “Stand-by” Transport Capacity
The assessments, analysis and resulting recommendations outlined within this document were based
on these efforts, generated through a cooperative effort and by majority consensus of subject matter
experts belonging to the CSRIC Working Group 9– Transport sub-committee.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
4. ANALYSIS, FINDINGS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1. ANALYSIS
4.1.1. ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS
The sub-committee reviewed the most predominant Root Cause of disaster-related, transport
failure, the transport failure points, by access segment (wireline, wireless, cable), and whether
existing best practices would have mitigated these root causes.
Most predominant Root Cause of Transport Failure. For the purposes of this tasking, the
sub-committee was interested in assessing how often major transport failures could be
attributed to disaster-related events. In the nomenclature of the Network Outage Reporting
Systems (NORS), the most applicable, root causes associated with storms falls under
“Environment (External) category. The subcategories within this grouping include:
• Animal Damage - Component destruction associated with damage caused by animals (e.g.,
squirrel/rodent chewing of cables, insect infestation, bird droppings, bird nests, etc.).
• Earthquake** - Component destruction or fault associated directly or indirectly with
seismic shock. However, if damage was the result of inadequate earthquake bracing,
consider the fault to be a hardware design.
• Fire** - Component destruction or fault associated with a fire occurring/starting outside
the service provider plant. This includes brush fires, pole fires, etc.
• Flood**
• Ice/Storm**
• Lightning/Transient Voltage** - Component destruction or fault associated with surges
and over-voltages caused by (electrical) atmospheric disturbances.
• Other
• Storm -Water/Ice** - Component destruction or fault associated with fog, rain, hail, sleet,
snow, or the accumulation of water/ice (flooding, collapse under weight of snow, etc.).
• Storm -Wind/Trees** - Component destruction or fault associated with wind-borne
debris or falling trees/limbs.
• Vandalism/Theft - Component loss, destruction, or fault associated with larceny,
mischief, or other malicious acts.
• Vehicular Accident - Component destruction or fault associated with vehicle (car, truck,
train, etc.) collision.
For the purposes of this assessment, the categories annotated with an “**” were considered
appropriate for this analysis.
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
Large-Capacity Transport Failure. Upon review of the April 2013 ATIS “Analysis of Large DS3
FCC Reportable Outages”4, report, the sub-committee found that weather, or disaster-related causes
are not significant contributors to large transport outages. Indeed, the largest applicable
Environmental-External subcategory cited as “direct cause” to transport outages was “Lightning-
transient voltage” at 1.1%.
This same report also reviewed major storm activity between January 2010 and June 2012 to assess
how these factors might have impacted the resiliency of larger DS3 capacity systems.5 The data
showed “that environmental conditions were not a significant contributor in the causes of large DS3
events. In fact, a small number of outages that exceeded the 1,000 DS3 thresholds were the result of
storm summarization by providers. In other words, several smaller DS3 systems were combined
into a single NORS report due to a common event (i.e., storm activity) driving the total DS3 impact
over 1,000 DS3s.”
Last-Mile Transport failure. In contrast, the transport segment between the End User and
Network Provider infrastructure (the “last mile”) is vulnerable to weather-related failures.
What is the “last mile?” In the context of this report, the subcommittee considers “last mile” to be
the connection between the customer (end user) and the telephone company, cable company or
ISP. The last mile has traditionally used copper-based telephone wire, coaxial cable, or Ethernet,
and wireless technologies offer alternative options in some locations. The specific infrastructure
constituting the “last mile” varies by access segment:
 Wireline: Customer Premise and Serving End Office
 Cable: Head End to the distribution node closest to the subscriber’s physical location
(leaves out going from the pole underground or by aerial to the subscriber
(home/business location.)
 Wireless: Base Station (providing RF coverage to the end-user subscriber) and the
final transport link from a distribution node (serving end office for a Local Exchange
Carrier (LEC) T1), OR the final Ethernet gigabit fiber hop connecting the wireless
base station with the Mobile Switching Center (MSC).
While disruption of “last mile” segments does not constitute a major service outage to the Network
Provider, the sub-committee recognized this same “last mile” can be key to the resilience of the End
User’s service. The impact experienced by the End User can be significant, if the End User relied on
that segment for critical purposes and did not request or arrange to protect that segment, thus
creating a Single Point of Failure (SPOF). Indeed, any End User with more than one route into the
Provider’s network more than doubles its survivability. “While the provider’s network has a high
level of built in resilience, the last mile connection to the customer is usually a single point of failure,
often because there is no alternative route. It is the most exposed part of the network to external
interference or disruption.”6
Identifying “Last Mile” Criticality. End Users have historically communicated the criticality of
circuits to their Network Providers by requesting Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP)
restoration codes from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)7. If the End User’s TSP request
4 (ATIS-0100038) Figure 9 Top 80% of Root Causes – Non Sympathy
5 (ATIS-0100038) Figure 18 Direct and Root Causes – Environmental Impact
6 Telecommunications Resilience Good Practice Guide Version 4 March 2006 Centre for the Protection of National
Infrastructure
7 The TSP program authorizes national security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) organizations to receive
priority treatment for vital voice and data circuits or other telecommunications services. The TSP program supports a
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
meets criteria within the national security/ emergency preparedness continuum, is approved by the
DHS TSP Program Office, and submitted to the Network Provider, the Network Provider tags those
circuits (virtually) within their systems, and these circuits are prioritized for restoration.
As of March 2014, DHS Office of Emergency Communications has assigned 279,000 priority
restoration codes. Of those 279K codes, 44% (>124,000) were assigned to private sector entities. Of
note, approximately 70,000 of the private sector codes are assigned to wireless service providers, to
ensure their “last mile” (the backhaul between the wireless base station and serving end office)
received priority for restoration. Wireless service providers are the single largest user class in the
TSP Program and constitute 25% of all assigned codes.
The importance of End Users communicating the criticality of their circuits to the Network Service
Providers cannot be overstated. Many times, it is only when the End User submits their TSP Code to
the Network Service provider, that there is any awareness that there is a critical function running
on that circuit. These lessons have been affirmed in a number of resilience guides directed at End
Users, such as the United Kingdom (UK) Center for the Protection of National Infrastructure
“Telecommunications Resilience Good Practice Guide”8 and the ATIS Network Diversity Assurance
Initiative (NDAI)9. “The customer (end user) must be knowledgeable and able to articulate the risk
it is willing to tolerate, and also translate this risk tolerance into terms that the (network) provider
understands. It is also important that the provider has knowledge of the customer’s business
continuity objectives so the provider can communicate how technical alternatives address business
risk. This would create a partnership among the parties and commitment on both sides to ensure
that technical diversity approaches satisfy functional requirements and mitigate potential risks. ”10.
The Financial Sector has clear understanding of how to communicate the criticality of their services,
as does the Public Safety community. Best Practice 9-9-0580 addresses the issue in the following
manner: “Network Operators and Public Safety Authorities should apply redundancy and diversity
where feasible, to all network links considered vital to a community's ability to respond to
emergencies.” Despite the applicability of both the Financial Sector and Public Safety best practices
to other Sectors or End Users that provide critical services, it is not clear this same level of
communication is being conveyed to the Network or Service Providers.
In the ATIS report cited above, the Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC) analyzed the
mixed use of protected services (i.e., transport diversity) and unprotected services (i.e., no alternate
transport diversity) by corporations and government entities purchasing bandwidth from service
providers. The NRSC determined that “customer demand for unprotected services is increasing”.11
The report went on to state that “the NRSC believes that most communication service providers
currently offer unprotected circuit terminations or lightpaths to provide affordable, dedicated
bandwidth. Unprotected bandwidth is typically used when guaranteed path diversity is not needed,
quality of services is not critical, or other means of a diverse path are engineered into the
architecture by the consumer.” The network providers within the subcommittee concurred with
this assessment of current practices.
Federal Communications Commission mandate to prioritize requests by identifying those services critical to NS/EP. A
TSP assignment ensures that it will receive priority attention by the service vendor before any non-TSP service.
8 United Kingdom (UK) Center for the Protection of National Infrastructure “Telecommunications Resilience Good
Practice Guide March 2006.
9 “National Diversity Assurance Initiative”, February 2006 Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
10 “National Diversity Assurance Initiative”, February 2006 Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
11 Briefing by Robin Howard from ATIS/NRSC Analysis of Large DS3 FCC Reportable Outages (ATIS-0100038)
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
As such, the subcommittee chose to focus on assessing whether there were alternate means to
share, or provision dynamically (“on-the-fly”) transport in the aftermath of a major event for those
critical-service end users whose arrangements either failed, or that may not have otherwise made
arrangements in advance?
4.1.2. REVIEW CURRENT BEST PRACTICES ASSOCIATED WITH EXTERNAL-ENVIRONMENT
(WEATHER) WHICH MIGHT MITIGATE LAST-MILE PROVISIONING/RESTORATION POST-DISASTER
General Best Practice Review. In the context of the root cause assessment conducted above, the
subcommittee considered the following Best Practices as potential starting-points for preventing
last-mile outages or alternatively, promoting faster provisioning or restoration post-disaster.
Number Description
9/6/5249 Network Operators should consider geographic separation of network redundancy during
restoration, and address losses of redundancy and geographic separation following
restoration.
9-7-1049 Service Providers should consider utilizing multiple network carriers for internet backbone
connectivity to prevent isolation of service nodes.
9-7-1050 Network Operators and Service Providers should consider tertiary carrier/transport
methods such as satellite, microwave or wireless to further reduce point of failures or as "hot
transport" backup facilities.
9/7/5075 Network Diversity: Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure that networks
built with redundancy are also built with geographic separation where feasible (e.g., avoid
placing mated pairs in the same location and redundant logical facilities in the same physical
path).
9/7/5079 Network Operators and Service Providers should, where feasible, provide both physical and
logical diversity of critical facilities links (e.g., nodal, network element). Particular attention
should be paid to telecom hotels and other concentration points.
9/7/5107 Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Suppliers should evaluate and manage
risks (e.g., alternate routing, rapid response to emergencies) associated with a concentration
of infrastructure components.
9/7/5261 Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers should identify carrier
interconnection points and coordinate restoral plans, as appropriate.
9-8-0731 Network Operators and Service Providers should provide physical diversity on critical inter-
office and wireless backhaul routes when justified by a risk or value analysis.
9-9-0402 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety should, where appropriate, design
networks (e.g., Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) or Internet Protocol (IP)) to minimize the
impact of a single point of failure (SPOF).
9-9-0580 Network Operators and Public Safety Authorities should apply redundancy and diversity
where feasible, to all network links considered vital to a community's ability to respond to
emergencies.
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
9-9-0736 Network Operators should develop and implement a rapid restoration program for cables
and facilities.
9-9-1031 Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers should consider entering into
Mutual Aid agreements with partners best able to assist them in a disaster situation
using the templates provided on the NRIC and NCS websites. These efforts could
include provisions to share spectrum, fiber facilities, switching, and/or technician
resources.
In general, the subcommittee felt that the best practices outlined above, were implemented by the
Network Providers, and credit many of these practices to the high reliability their networks.
However, certain Best Practices suggest collaboration with End Users Many of the best practices,
and the subcommittee re-affirmed the necessity for End Users to communicate to the Network
Providers any critical services that might not otherwise be known.
Sharing of Transport-Related Hardware Components:
Network hardware components fail for many reasons; some may be weather-related. When this
occurs, service continuation may come in the form of a redundant failover, or via load sharing. In
other cases, replacement of the failed component(s) is required to restore vital communications
services. Often, this replacement equipment is on site, and can quickly be put into service. In other
cases, a maintenance agreement is in place for the equipment, and a vendor provides this
replacement equipment. In other cases, equipment may come from another location from within the
service provider’s enterprise, and in others, the equipment may be provided by the equipment
manufacturer.
There will be cases however, where a critical component may not be available via any of the above
methods. Some of the equipment in question can be very specialized, with unique configurations. In
certain cases, this equipment is manufactured to order, or is only periodically produced, and an off-
the-shelf or off-the-assembly-line unit may not be available. In these cases, it is possible that
another service provider may have equipment that could be used at this time of need.
Several existing best practices support sharing of resources and/or restoration plans between
service providers:
Number Description
9-9-1031 Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers should consider entering into
Mutual Aid agreements with partners best able to assist them in a disaster situation
using the templates provided on the NRIC and NCS websites. These efforts could include
provisions to share spectrum, fiber facilities, switching, and/or technician resources.
9-7-5261 Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers should identify carrier
interconnection points and coordinate restoral plans, as appropriate
While there are numerous steady-state forums where service providers can exchange information
on planning initiatives, the subcommittee felt the most effective forum for post-incident support
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
and resources is the DHS National Coordinating Center (NCC)/Communications Information
Sharing and Analysis Center (ISAC)12.
The twelve (12) Best Practices above all play a role in ensuring the reliability of the networks, and
the lack of weather-related causes associated with large-scale outages is a testament to use of these
practices. Since the analysis suggested that it was the last-mile component that needed to be
reviewed, the subcommittee turned its focus to on assessing the viability of “sharing” excess
transport among or between the Access Segments (wireline, wireless, cable), and the viability of
utilizing alternate transport modes as a means to replace or augment last-mile transport in the
aftermath of a disaster. In all cases, the subcommittee was focused on determining whether there
were options that might prove faster than the time associated with a prioritized restoration.
4.1.3. ASSESS VIABILITY OF “SHARING” EXCESS TRANSPORT AMONG OR BETWEEN SEGMENTS
Recognizing that the most predominant transport failure was within the “last mile” of the
networks, the subcommittee reviewed network topologies by segment to assess points between
segment carriers. The most common intersection point between the access segments (wireline,
wireless, cable) were at higher levels of interconnection such as tandem locations and telecomm
hotels, which would not serve to mitigate the last-mile transport failures.
Since there were virtually no common access points suitable for providing alternate, last-mile
transport, it was the subcommittees view that sharing of transport facilities was not feasible.
4.1.4. ASSESS VIABILITY OF “STAND-BY” OR “ON-THE-FLY” TRANSPORT SERVICES
The subcommittee received a number of briefings on the viability of alternate transport modes
and assessed whether these modes could potentially be accessed in the immediate aftermath of
a disaster related outage. In particular, the subcommittee reviewed the capabilities of accessing
dark (unlit) fiber, microwave connections, Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) and passive
optical network capabilities. The subcommittee was interested in the bandwidth these options
might provide, and whether these options could be provisioned “on-the-fly” (within hours), or
whether these options could be available on some stand-by (pre-arranged, but in reserve)
capacity. Without exception, the options briefed did not lend themselves to dynamic (within
hours) provisioning. Under optimal circumstances the VSAT and Microwave options can be
provisioned within one-two days, which might prove faster (under certain circumstances) than
prioritized restoration intervals.
While these options did not lend themselves to on-the-fly availability, access to unlit metro
fiber, VSAT and microwave transport options can be incorporated into an End User’s business
continuity plan or used by the Network Provider to provide a “stand-by,” diverse pathway
requested by End Users with critical needs. The specifics, however, on which option to use and
how to ensure it met the end user’s needs would be subject to cost, advance planning and
engineering by both parties.
In the opinion of the subcommittee, the use of Passive Optical Networks (PON) did not meet the
objectives sought for alternate stand-by transport in the aftermath of an event. End Users with
sufficient scale, however, may want to consider converting their enterprise architecture to one
leveraging PON technologies given the advantages of reduced power requirements for the
enterprise as a whole and an architecture that might lend itself to simplified provisioning of
alternative, back-up power.
12 http://www.dhs.gov/national-coordinating-center-communications
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
Appendix D provides brief summaries of the microwave, VSAT, dark fiber, and PON options as
conveyed through subcommittee briefings.
4.2. FINDINGS
4.2.1. The subcommittee found that External Environment (weather) was not a predominant
root cause for large scale outages.
4.2.2. The sub-committee found that External Environment (weather) was the predominant
root cause for failure, of an “unprotected” transport connection between the End-User
and the Service Provider (wireless, wireline or cable).
4.2.3. The sub-committee found that there may be some opportunity to share common
transport hardware among Network or Service providers through mutual aide
agreements or coordination forums such as the NCC/COMM-ISAC.
4.2.4. The sub-committee found that wireless providers have conveyed the criticality of
approximately 70K circuits by placing a TSP code on their “last-mile” circuit.
4.2.5. The sub-committee found that customer demand for unprotected “last mile” services is
increasing.
4.2.6. The sub-committee found that there is little or no common, last-mile transport
infrastructure that access providers could share.
4.2.7. The sub-committee found there are no alternate transport options that can be
provisioned “on the fly” for immediate transport access without advance planning.
4.2.8. The sub-committee found there are alternate transport options, most notably satellite
and microwave options that might be provisioned (within 1-2 days) sooner than
restoration intervals.
4.2.9. The sub-committee found that dark fiber, satellite and microwave options can be
provisioned for stand-by access provided engineering and arrangements have been
made in advance.
4.2.10. With foreknowledge, it may be possible for the Network Provider, Service Provider and
End User to make the appropriate plans to assure that critical services are assured to the
degree required by the End User. It is not clear that this level of communication is
occurring between all End Users with Critical Services and the Network or Service
Providers.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
In summary, the sub-committee found that there is little or no common last-mile transport
infrastructure that access providers could share dynamically. Furthermore, the sub-committee found
that there are no alternate transport options that can be provisioned “on the fly” for immediate
transport access without advanced planning. With foreknowledge, it may be possible for the Network
Provider, Service Provider, and End User to make the appropriate plans to assure that critical services
are secured to the degree required by the End User. For instance, the sub-committee found there are
alternate transport options, most notably satellite and microwave options, which might be provisioned
(within 1-2 days) sooner than restoration intervals. The sub-committee also found that dark fiber,
satellite, and microwave options can be provisioned for stand-by access provided engineering and
arrangements have been made in advance. It is not clear, however, that this level of communication is
occurring between all End Users with Critical Services and the Network/Service Providers so that these
advance plans and arrangements can be made. It is important for the End Users to articulate their
business continuity objectives to the Network or Service provider so that arrangements to address the
End User needs are accommodated.
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
In the context of continued assurance for last-mile segments, it is the Transport Subcommittees
recommendation that the FCC continue to promote and encourage Network Providers, Service
Providers and Critical Users to review these current Best Practices:
Number Description
9-7-1049 Service Providers should consider utilizing multiple network carriers for internet backbone
connectivity to prevent isolation of service nodes.
9-7-1050 Network Operators and Service Providers should consider tertiary carrier/transport methods
such as satellite, microwave or wireless to further reduce point of failures or as "hot transport"
backup facilities.
9/7/5075 Network Diversity: Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure that networks built
with redundancy are also built with geographic separation where feasible (e.g., avoid placing
mated pairs in the same location and redundant logical facilities in the same physical path).
9/7/5079 Network Operators and Service Providers should, where feasible, provide both physical and
logical diversity of critical facilities links (e.g., nodal, network element). Particular attention
should be paid to telecom hotels and other concentration points.
9/7/5107 Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Suppliers should evaluate and manage
risks (e.g., alternate routing, rapid response to emergencies) associated with a concentration of
infrastructure components.
9-8-0731 Network Operators and Service Providers should provide physical diversity on critical inter-
office and wireless backhaul routes when justified by a risk or value analysis.
9-9-0402 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety should, where appropriate, design
networks (e.g., Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) or Internet Protocol (IP)) to minimize the
impact of a single point of failure (SPOF).
9-9-0532 Network Operators and Public Safety should periodically audit the physical and logical diversity
called for by network design of their network segment(s) and take appropriate measures as
needed.
9-9-0566 Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety should consider placing and maintaining
9-1-1 TDM or IP based networks over diverse interoffice transport facilities (e.g., geographically
diverse facility routes, automatically invoked standby routing, diverse digital cross-connect
system services, self-healing fiber ring topologies, or any combination thereof).
9-9-0580 Network Operators and Public Safety Authorities should apply redundancy and diversity where
feasible, to all network links considered vital to a community's ability to respond to emergencies.
9-9-0736 Network Operators should develop and implement a rapid restoration program for cables and
facilities.
9/9/5113 Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Property Managers, when feasible,
should provide multiple cable entry points at critical facilities (e.g., copper or fiber conduit)
avoiding single points of failure (SPOF).
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
The sub-committee endorses recommendations previously made by the Network Reliability Steering
Committee13 specifically:
 Customers purchasing protected or unprotected lightpaths, circuits or other transport services
should consider reviewing the ATIS Network Diversity Assurance Initiative (NDAI) report
regarding bilateral contractual arrangements to manage diversity for critical services.
The subcommittee recommends that the FCC continue to support outreach efforts of the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to build awareness of
the TSP Program, for the prioritized restoration afforded by this program may meet some end user needs.
The subcommittee recommends that the FCC coordinate with DHS to develop messaging appropriate for
DHS Sector Outreach efforts, emphasizing the importance of communicating the criticality or business
continuity objectives of Critical Infrastructure Key Resource Owner Operators to their Network or Service
Providers.
13 ibid
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY
Terminology Description
ATIS Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
Base Station Cabinet and electronics for cell site
CPNI Center for the Protection of National Infrastructure (UK)
CSRIC Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
Customer Premise Customer site, i.e. equipment is on the customer's premise
DHS Department of Homeland Security
DS3 Digital Signal Level 3
End User A person who uses a product, i.e. Customer
FCC Federal Communications Commission
Head End Facility that houses electronic equipment to support in stream delivery of communications
services
ISP Internet Service Provider
LEC Local Exchange Carrier
MSC Mobile Switching Center
NDAI ATIS Network Diversity Assurance Initiative
Network Provider A business or organization that sells bandwidth or network access by providing direct Internet
backbone access to the Internet and usually access to its network access points
NORS Network Outage Reporting Systems
NSRA National Sector Risk Assessment for Communications.
Protected Services Network Diversity, Having multiple routes to a destination
RF Radio Frequency – can be used as a synonym for radio to describe the use of wireless
communication
Segment Section of a communications network
Service Nodes A physical entity that contains the service control function, service data function, specialized
resource function and service switching/call control functions. A switch that is located at the
meeting point between two networks, for instance between an end user's LAN to an ISP's
network or an ISP’s network to the Internet backbone.
Service Provider A company that provides communications services to the end user
Serving End Office The specific central office at which user lines and trunks are interconnected
Subscriber A person or company that is authorized to receive or access communications services, i.e.
customer
Sympathy Reports Outage Reports that are filed under FCC Part 4 Rules when an outage reported in one service
provider’s network results in a FCC reportable condition for another service provider.
T-1 A full-duplex digital transmission facility that is composed of transmission media (optical or
metallic) and regenerators that carry one DS1 signal.
TSP Telecommunications Service Priority
VSAT Very Small Aperture Terminal
PON Passive Optical Networks
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
APPENDIX B: RESOURCE MATERIALS REVIEWED
Publications
“2012 National Sector Risk Assessment for Communications”, U.S. Department of Homeland
Security, September 27, 2012.
“Last Mile Bandwidth Task Force Report”, National Security Telecommunications Advisory
Committee (NSTAC) 2002
“ATIS-0100038, Analysis of Large DS3 FCC Reportable Outages”, Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS). 2013
“National Diversity Assurance Initiative”, February 2006 Alliance for Telecommunications
Industry Solutions (ATIS)
“Best Practices to Assure Telecommunications Continuity for Financial Institutions and the
Payment & Settlements Utilities” Report by the Assuring Telecommunications Continuity Task
Force, Payments Risk Committee, September 2004
“Telecommunications Resilience Good Practice Guide Version 4”, March 2006 Centre for the
Protection of National Infrastructure
Proceedings
2013 FCC Network Resiliency Workshop
Papers
http://edas.info/web/fcc-nr2013/program.html
Leveraging Diversity for Resiliency, Roch Guérin (Washington University in St. Louis, USA)
Minimizing the Risk of Communication Failure, John Thomas (Sprint, USA)
FTTH technology in the Aftermath of Sandy, Peter Vetter, Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent
Network Adaptability from Disaster Disruptions and Cascading Failures, Biswanath Mukherjee
(University of California, Davis, USA)
Workshop Presentations:
http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4buVHalBRoPRqBvtphzmPN1k91l7vJYD
ALTERNATE TRANSPORT BRIEFINGS, March 19, 2014:
 Passive Optical Network Overview. Briefing provided by CenturyLink
 Satellite Communications and Network Transit. Briefing provided by Global VSAT Forum
 Dark Fiber Disaster Recover Considerations. Briefing provided by Level3
 Microwave Radio Transport. Briefing provided by Commsearch, a Commscope Company
RELATED TOPIC BRIEFINGS:
 Priority Telecommunications Services. Briefing provided by DHS Office of Emergency
Communications (3/19/2014)
 FEMA Resources and Capabilities in Disaster Recovery. Briefing provided by Region __ FEMA
(2/26/2014)
 Review of Best Practices: Financial Sector participants, WG9 Transport Subcommittee (2/12/2014)
 “Assuring Telecommunications Continuity Task Force” report of the Payments Risk Committee
o Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) study entitled the “National Diversity
Assurance Initiative”.
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
APPENDIX C: COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR NETWORK ARCHITECTURE DIAGRAMS 14
High Level Communications Sector Architecture NSRA page 21
14 “2012 National Sector Risk Assessment for Communications”, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, September 27, 2012
16
tnemeganaM
snoitarepO
Services and Applications
Voice Data
 HTTP  GPS Navigation/
 Local and Long Video
 Email Tracking/Timing
Distance
 Linear and On-Demand  Text Messaging  Remote File
 FM/AM Radio
Entertainment Programming  Remote Transfer Access
 911/E911
 News and Information Training  Managed/Hosted/  File Transfer
 Video Conferencing Cloud Services  Web Hosting
 YouTube  Social Networking  Business Mgmt
Core Network
International
Cable Satellite Wireless Wireline
Access Networks
)SPG
,sesabatad
eerf-llot
,BDIL
,.g.e(
sesabataD
metsyS
dna
gnilangiS
 VoIP
 Air Traffic Control
 Intermodal
 Satellite Radio
BroadcastingThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
Broadcasting Data Operations Center
Satellite Data Operations Center
Cable Data Operations Center
Third Party Support Providers
Wireless Data Operations Center
W Oir pe el rin ae ti oS ne sr v Dic ae ta P Cro ev ni td ee rr SeD rN veS r s PL o DN o BP li s n& g Re8 Ds0 Bp0 O s# rg RoE u D9 t Bi1 n s1 g &
DNS AddT rN es s/ ses E911 Billing ON pe et rw ato iork n s
Center
Commercial
LIDB CNAM V So eI rP v/ eIM rsS InN ve etw nto or rk y (Cl Do au td a P Cr eo nv ti ed rer)
 CaaS
HTTP | RTP | SIP |H.264 | MPEG  PaaS
TCP/IP | SS7 | Ethernet  SaaS
MPLS Switching | TDM Voice Switching | Core Routing  IaaS
Customer Fiber | Copper | DWDM | SONET | SDH
CC ea nr te e r Core Transport Nodes CaS bu lb e
S
m L itaa enri dn ie n g Su Cbm aba lr eine
Core
Access
Broadcasting Cable Satellite Wireless Wireline
CaaS – Computing as a Service PaaS – Platform as a Service
CNAM – Calling Name Delivery RespOrg – Responsible Organization
DBs – Databases RTP – Real-time Transport Protocol
DNS – Domain Name Service SaaS – Software as a Service
DWDM – Dense Wave Division Multiplexing SDH – Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
HTTP – Hypertext Transfer Protocol SIP – Session Initiation Protocol
IaaS – Infrastructure as a Service SONET – Synchronous Optical Networking
IMS – IP Multimedia Subsystem SS7 – Signaling System 7
LIDB – Line Information Database TDM – Time-division Multiplexing
LNP – Local Number Portability TCP/IP – Transmission Control Protocol/Internet
MPLS – Multiprotocol Label Switching Protocol
MPEG – Moving Picture Experts Group VoIP – Voice over Internet Protocol
Communications Sector “CORE” Architecture, NSRA page 23
Core
Networks
Outside Fiber Fiber Outside
Plant Node Distribution Distribution Node Plant
Hub Hub
Headend
Local
Program Broadcasting
Services Services
Communications Sector “CABLE” Architecture, NSRA page 32
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
2G
MSC/VLR HLR
EIR OSS
Mobile Phone BSC Circuit-Switched
BTS Core C No en tn we oc rt ks E to le E mv ee nr ty
3G
HSS AAA
Smart Phone
3G Packet-Switched
Core
RNC HA
Laptop Node B
SGSN/PDSN AS
GGSN/PDSN HSS
Tablet
IMS Core
RNC CSCF
Node B
PGW
eUTRAN/LTE (4G) MME P4 aG c E kev to Clv oe rd e PDF
MGCF/MGW
Smart Phone
Internet
Laptop SGW
eNode B AAA – Authentication, Authorization, IMS – IP Multimedia Subsystem
and Accounting Server MGCF – Media Gateway Control Function
Tablet AS – Application Server MGW – Media Gateway
BSC – Base Station Controller MME – Mobility Management Entity
BSS – Base Station Subsystem MSC – Mobile Switching Center
BTS – Base Transceiver Station Node B – Node B
CSCF – Call Session Control Function OSS – Operational Support System
EIR – Equipment Identity Register PDF – Policy Decision Function
eNode B – enhanced Node B PDSN – Packet Data Serving Node
GGSN – Gateway GPRS Support Node SGSN – Serving GPRS Support Network
HA – Home Agent SGW – Serving Gateway
HLR – Home Location Register VLR – Visitor Location Register
HSS – Home Subscriber Server
Communications Sector “WIRELESS” Architecture, NSRA, page 43
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
STP/SCPs
800# DBs
NID
NID/ONT Telecom Hotel
GPON/DSL
Neighborhood
Node
Core
Networks
Wireline Access
Network
Business
Communications Local/Regional
Tandem Switches
Next Generation Serving Office
End Office
TDM Voice MPLS/Ethernet DSLAM/
SMART GRID Switch Switch Access Router
Networks
PSAPs/E911
Centers
Access VoIP Gateway/ Video
DSL – Digital Subscriber Line Aggregation & Session Border Head End
DSLAM – Digital Subscriber Line Access Distribution Controller
Multiplexer
GPON – Gigabit Passive Optical Network
MPLS – Multiprotocol Label Switching
NID – Network Interface Device Fiber
Backhaul &
ONT – Optical Network Terminal Video/Voice Distribution
PSAP – Public Safety Answering Point Communications Video/Voice
SCP – Service Control Point Satellites Communications
Ground Stations
STP – Signal Transfer Point
TDM – Time-division Multiplexing
VoIP – Voice over Internet Protocol
Communications Sector “WIRELINE” Architecture, NSRA page 48
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
APPENDIX D: MICROWAVE, VSAT, AND DARK FIBER DETAILED DISCUSSION
Microwave
MW band selection comes in two forms;
 Licensed
o Licensed microwave enables interference-free operation enabling a highly reliable link
o Licensed links are protected from new entrants who need to work around existing links
o Licensed links have a typical 10-year renewable term
 Un-Licensed
o Unlicensed links can be implemented quickly (no frequency coordination or FCC licensing)
o Unlicensed links typically have a lower initial equipment cost
o Unlicensed links typically share the band with many other types of unlicensed devices that can
cause harmful interference
Although, un-licensed links appear simple to implement there are considerations that will need to be
evaluated before a plan can move forward. Additionally, this solution is not one that can be shared
between service providers. Service providers would need to determine whether this solution is viable
for each specific event for their network.
There are managed service organizations that specialize in design and implementation of MW systems.
Service providers can set up service agreements, determine which amenities would be needed during a
DR event and build a pricing catalog in advance. Then when an event occurs, the service provider only
has to make a call to the managed service organization and give them the detailed instructions on the
state of the network (i.e power is a requirement at the donor and receiving sites) for activating a link.
Equipment can be either managed by the service provider or Network Operator.
VSAT (Satellite)
Satellite like MW, can be managed on-the-fly, but does not lend itself to be shared between service
providers. Services providers would need to determine whether this solution is viable for each specific
event for their network. There are organizations that support enabling Satcom solutions and service
delivery. These organizations will support the facilitation of emergency notifications and dialogue,
training for VSAT installation, registry and installer database to support preparedness and task force to
enable and monitor security of the link(s).
Satcom solutions have options for service providers to procure capacity on a satellite. Individual
circuits are available to Network Providers and links are IP capable. Circuit types include Single Channel
Per Carrier (SCPC) or Multiple Channels Per Carrier (MCPC).
VSAT services can be quick to deploy (2-3 days) at site locations convenient to the service provider.
There are four “big” satellite provides worldwide and 8-10 smaller providers. Recently, satellite
solutions have increased spectrum efficiency the latency that is seen in VSAT circuits and high-
bandwidth options as well as bandwidth efficiency. Antennas and terminals are getting more compact
allowing equipment to be more portable.
Dark Fiber (Case Study)
Dark Fiber Infrastructure: Dark Fiber is unlit fiber on the intercity and metro networks. Intercity fiber
is typically a point to point segment terminating in Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities with multiple regenerator
sites in-between. Metro fiber is typically built in loops and segments connecting to multiple buildings
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
within a metro market. The dark fiber user is responsible for providing the optronics to make the dark
fiber functional.
Intercity dark fiber: Intercity is optical fiber on the network that interconnects specific cities.
Configurations may include fiber on point to point segments (typically ending at in Tier 1 and Tier 2
cities in controlled telecom locations sometimes called “Gateways”). Intercity fiber will typically pass
thru multiple small facilities called In Line Amplifiers or Regenerators (ILA/3R) sites. Intercity Dark
Fiber requires the purchase, installation, test, provisioning, and maintenance of optronics equipment
for use at Gateway and ILA locations. Intercity Dark Fiber will require physical interconnects at the
Gateway sites (or along the fiber right of way) to use the fiber. Interconnect locations are limited.
Metro Fiber: Metro dark fiber is optical fiber on the transport network contained within a particular
metropolitan area. Typically configurations may include the fiber on metro loops and point to point
segments. Metro fiber Loops typically are built with cable sizes from 12 count to 864 count cables.
Metro fiber splice locations are typically more numerous due to the multiple buildings to be serviced.
Metro fiber will typically support multiple metro buildings via laterals. Some laterals or routes are
dedicated to a specific entity and are not available for other use.
Disaster Recovery Considerations
Intercity and Metro Recovery Routes:
 Potential recovery route(s) availability needs to be confirmed. Fiber may not be available on the
route(s) required as well as total number of fibers required and timeframes needed.
 Potential handoff/interconnect locations from the impaired route to potential recovery routes need
to be confirmed.
 Distances between fiber routes can be large. These interconnect distances can be longer than the
portion of the route to be repaired. Interconnect locations on intercity fibers routes are extremely
limited.
 If there is not an existing common fiber network handoff location between companies, build and
permitting timeframes could be longer than the original network repair timeframes.
 Total scope needs to be confirmed before migration to the potential recovery route is contemplated.
 Equipment, space and power requirements needed for the duplicate route must be confirmed.
Vendor lead timeframes or lack of space and power may not support the migration to a potential
recovery route. Use of Intercity fiber will typically require deployment of new optronics equipment
at multiple sites.
Disaster Recovery Case Studies:
1. A Network Provider had an ILA site damaged by a hurricane near New Orleans. The Network
Provider had access to intercity fibers on the nearby alternate carrier route. But given the
complexity of locating equipment, space, power requirements, provisioning and installation, the
Network Provider did not use the alternate carrier route fibers, but instead installed in a
replacement ILA hut (on a trailer) for this recovery. The shared fiber solution with the alternate
carrier would have taken much longer to turn-up than the ILA hut solution.
2. A Network Provider had a site damaged near New Orleans by a hurricane. The Network Provider
ordered multiple 10G waves (lit capacity) for temporary capacity for one year (New Orleans to
Houston) while the ILA site and damaged portion of the route was repaired.
3. During the recent floods in Northern Colorado, a telecom’s intercity dark fiber route was damaged
north of Denver. The Network Provider confirmed temporary fibers were available. The telecom’s
build timeframes to connect the Network Providers fiber was longer than the repair time on their
damaged fiber. The telecom repaired their own route and did not use the Network Providers fiber.
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group IX
Transport Sub-Committee December, 2014
4. A cable company asked a network Provider to confirm available fiber in Joplin, MO after their
network was damaged by a tornado. The Network Provider dark fiber locations and the cable
companies build timeframes did not support the use of any available dark fiber. The cable company
repaired their own fiber routes and did not use the Network Provider fiber.
Passive Optical Network Overview
A passive optical network (PON) is a telecommunications network that uses point-to-multipoint fiber
to the premises in which unpowered optical splitters are used to enable a single optical fiber to serve
multiple premises. A PON consists of an optical line terminal (OLT) at the service provider's central
office and a number of optical network units (ONUs) near end users. A PON reduces the amount of fiber
and central office equipment required compared with point-to-point architectures. A passive optical
network is a form of fiber-optic access network. Passive network utilizes unpowered optical splitters
and shares fiber optic cables with multiple customers. Power is required at the source to manage
traffic. These types of networks are conducive to closed campus type environment for a passive
distribution using simplified wiring and reduced power.
“Fiber optic cables are more robust against floods than copper cables. The replacement of damaged
copper cables and considerations to install utility cables underground in the aftermath of super storm
Sandy provide an opportunity to roll out a future proof wireline infrastructure. A passive optical
network (PON) does not require active equipment in the outside plant, which avoids the need for
powering remote nodes and reduces the risk of failures… And improved energy efficiency of the
customer premises equipment (CPE) enables new power back-up approaches, such as easy-to-replace
consumer batteries or small solar cells.”15
15 FTTH technology in the Aftermath of Sandy, Petter Vetter, Alcatel Lucent, 2013 FCC Network Resiliency
Workshop, http://edas.info/web/fcc-nr2013/program.html
22
