PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC%20WG10%20CPE%20Powering%20Best%20Practices%20Final%20Draft%20v2%20082014.pdf:
September, 2014 WORKING GROUP 10B
CPE Powering – Best Practices
Final Report – CPE PoweringThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 3
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 4
2.2 Working Group [#] Team Members ................................................................................ 4
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 5
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 5
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 5
3.2.1 Problem Statement .................................................................................................... 5
3.2.2 Working Group Description ..................................................................................... 5
3.2.3 Deliverables .............................................................................................................. 5
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 6
3.3.1 Methodology Overview ............................................................................................ 6
3.3.2 Sub-Team Organization ............................................................................................ 6
3.3.3 Sub-Team Approach ................................................................................................. 6
4 Background .............................................................................................................................. 6
5 Decsription of Common Use Cases ......................................................................................... 8
6 Conclusion………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 19
7. Appendix –Best Practices ...................................................................................................... 20
Page 2 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
Working Group 10 of the Communications, Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council
(CSRIC) is focused on addressing Customer Premise Equipment (CPE) Powering.
“With the rapid proliferation of VoIP technologies as substitutes for legacy telecommunications
services, end-users are now utilizing a service that lacks the lifeline they were once accustomed
to. Instead of being powered from the resilient backup power infrastructure in the serving
central office, the user’s home device is powered by a local battery when line power is lost, as
often happens during emergencies. Different communications providers have different policies
as it relates to powering these devices. This Working Group will recommend best practices for
providing backup power to VoIP customer premises equipment, including best practices for
consumer notification.”
CSRIC Working Group 10 structured itself into two sub-groups to address CPE powering best
practices and consumer notification. This report reviews best practices for nine use cases of
VoIP service configurations commonly deployed in the United States. The appendix contains a
compilation of all the best practices recommended by Working Group 10.
2 Introduction
The CSRIC was established as a Federal Advisory Committee designed to provide
recommendations to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regarding best practices
and actions the Commission can take to ensure optimal security, reliability, and interoperability
of communications systems, including telecommunications, media and public safety
communications systems. CSRIC created ten working groups, each with its own area of
responsibility. Working Group 10 was charged with examining CPE powering best practices
and consumer notification.
Working Group 10 identified nine use cases that encompass VoIP deployments in the United
States today. These use cases range from those that are typically deployed with battery backup
today to those that are never or rarely deployed with battery backup. Increasingly, battery
backup is being offered as an optional accessory to the consumer, which they can control and
manage themselves. Use cases that currently have no battery backup options will be challenged
to offer battery backup as an option to consumers, but working with their vendors we believe
every use case is capable of supporting a higher reliability than today with battery backup.
In addition to examining the best practices for the nine use cases, this report also looks at battery
technology options being utilized in the industry today. Due to the confluence of battery
technology and a wide variety of DC power options, some level of standardization is needed of
DC power systems and interfaces, if VoIP services are to meet the reliability that consumers
expect in the United States.
Page 3 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or Chair or Chair or Co- Chair or
Co-Chairs: Co-Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Chairs: Co- Co-Chairs: Chairs: Co-
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working Group 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group 3: Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group
Next Wireless EAS Cybersecurity Server- Long-Term Legacy Submarine Infrastructure 10: CPE
Generation Emergency Best Practices Based Core Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Working DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
Table 1 - Working Group Structure
2.2 Working Group 10 Team Members
Working Group 10 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Lois Burns State of Pennsylvania
John Healy FCC Representative
Marte Kinder Time Warner Cable
Brian Allen Time Warner Cable
Tim Walden CenturyLink
David Russell Calix
Eric Dreas Comcast
Haifeng Bi AT&T
Mark Adams Cox
Mike Nawrocki Verizon
Thomas Schwengler CenturyLink
Barry Umansky Ball State University
Steve Pociask American Consumer Institute
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
Page 4 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
Working Group 10’s objective is to compile a set of best practices related to the powering of
consumer’s CPE devices for VoIP services. Because VoIP services are deployed in a variety of
configurations the Working Group identified nine different use cases commonly used in the
United States today. Most best practices are common across all use cases, but some use cases
have more specific best practices.
3.2 Scope
3.2.1 Problem Statement
With the transition of legacy telecommunications services to VoIP technology there have been a
variety of consumer deployment models implemented by service providers. This transition has
been accompanied by a shift from network power to local power of the network access device
placed by service providers at the customer premises.
This has placed increased importance on the best approaches to provide backup power for
consumers during outages and how best to inform consumers regarding the differences with
legacy telephone service. For the service provider, one of the greatest challenges is how to
provide a reliable service given the wide range of technologies and the lack of any standards for
DC power backup systems and interfaces. As an analogy, imagine trying to service the needs of
all consumers in United States for AC powered devices if there was no standardized AC wall
plug. It would lead to chaos.
Even if a VoIP service has a good battery up system, the ability to provide power during outages
is usually limited to a few hours. Best practices are needed to offer solutions that can last
multiple days or even weeks, in case catastrophic damage, such as a major storm.
3.2.2 Working Group Description
Working Group 10 was tasked with defining best practices for the different types of VoIP
deployments, each identified as a use case. Each use case is described and key differences in
terms of the best practices are highlighted.
3.2.3 Deliverables
Each use case is described and an approach for providing battery backup is outlined,
Best practices associated with the nine different VoIP deployment models are documented.
Page 5 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
3.3 Methodology
3.3.1 Methodology Overview
Working Group 10 was made up primarily of service providers and other key industry
stakeholders. The team met bi-weekly, but between meetings consulted with subject matter
experts within the service providers and the vendor community.
3.3.2 Sub-Team Organization
Working Group 10 had two sub teams. The first sub-team focused on education and outreach.
The second sub-team focused on defining the use cases commonly used in the United States
today and best practices for and best practice aimed at ensuring reliable service during power
outages.
3.3.3 Sub-Team Approach
The Best Practices Sub-Team Group began meeting in January, 2014 to discuss the scope of the
sub-Team and to determine the subjects to be addressed. The Sub-Team performed an analysis
of the methods and procedures commonly being offered by VoIP service providers in the United
States today The team identified several deployment models that had gaps that could impact the
reliability during electrical outages and recommended best practices to address these
circumstances.
4 Background
The deployment of a VoIP service requires that analog voice signals are converted to IP utilizing
a voice codec. These codecs support a variety of standards developed to support voice, fax and
other legacy TDM services over IP. The codec function is referred to as the Analog Telephone
Adapter (ATA) in this document.
The ATA function is typically deployed in devices owned by the network operator, however, in
several of the use cases the ATA function is being placed in consumer owned devices. This
creates more challenges for battery backup of the VoIP service.
One clear trend across all VoIP use cases is that battery backup is increasingly being offered as
an option to the consumer, with the cost and maintenance of the UPS and batteries being the
consumer’s responsibility. As a result, the Working Group approached each use case from the
perspective of what was needed to provide battery backup and the challenges associated with
that use case. This was particularly a challenge in those use cases that currently do not have a
battery backup option.
Page 6 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
A second trend was the desire for longer periods of battery backup. Due to recent catastrophic
weather events and fears of future major power disruptions, the need for approaches that provide
more flexibility and approaches that can last longer than a few hours of battery backup was a
major focus of the sub-team.
There are three types of battery technology commonly used with ATAs. They vary in their
ability to address longer power outages, cost and ease of maintaining or replacing them.
1. Lead Acid Batteries-These are the most common form of batteries used in
communications systems, including UPS devices deployed in consumers’ homes. Lead
acid provides the highest performance at the lowest cost of any of the technologies. The
batteries tend to be large and somewhat bulky. They are available through battery
retailers, some mass market retailers or through service providers. Lead acid batteries can
be recharged and last many years.
2. D Cell Alkaline Batteries-These are the most widely available batteries. Because they
are sold my most retailers, D-cells are easy for consumers to purchase and maintain. As
a primary battery type, these batteries are generally discharged once and then replaced.
Products are coming to market that enable D Cells to support VoIP services over time
periods comparable or longer than lead acid, and they must be replaced once discharged.
During long catastrophic power outages D cells can easily be replaced with new batteries
purchased at any retailer.
3. Lithium Batteries-Noted for their small size and high performance, Lithium batteries are
increasingly being used in PCs and other consumer devices. They are higher cost than
the other battery technologies, but are expected to decrease in cost over time. Lithium
batteries can be recharged, but may show aging effects. The versions used for network
applications are not available through retailers today, but must be purchased through
service providers or from the vendor of the CPE device.
5 Description of Common Use Cases
Nine use cases were identified that encompassed the deployment of VoIP services to consumers’
Page 7 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
in the United States. After each use case is a recommended approach for battery backup. Best
practices are described in the Appendix and the use cases that apply to them are identified.
Use Case 1 ATA Function in Network Device Inside the Home
Deployment Description
The most commonly deployed model for VoIP services in the United States is to locate the ATA
function in a network device, installed inside the living unit. Commonly used in hybrid fiber
coax cable networks that use embedded multimedia terminal adapters (eMTA), twisted pair
telephone (DSL) networks and increasingly Fiber-to-the-Home (FTTH) Optical Network Units
(ONUs), also called ONTs.
The network device provides at least one RJ-11 jack (phone line interface) to connect to
traditional telephone handsets. Low voltage power is provided to the telephone handsets via the
RJ-11 jack in the network device. Many ATAs can connect more than one phone line via
additional jacks and also have other interfaces, such as RJ-45 Ethernet and USB ports.
Battery Backup
The network device, with the embedded ATA function, is powered directly by AC or through a
UPS that converts AC to DC power. Network devices that are directly AC fed may have small
Page 8 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
battery packs that consumers can install in their devices. These may be Alkaline or Lithium
technology. UPS powered units typically use lead acid batteries. These battery backup
approaches achieve 4-8 hours of backup time for voice services. New approaches are coming to
market that use “D” cell batteries in conjunction with a power adapter or power strip. These
devices achieve significantly greater backup power times and have an on-off switch so that
consumers can make batteries last even longer during extended power outages.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 1 in the Appendix.
Use Case 2 ATA in Network Device Inside the Home-RF-Over-Glass (RFoG)
Deployment Description
Radio Frequency over Glass (RFoG) is a fiber deep hybrid fiber coax (HFC) architecture used
by cable operators, in which the coax portion of the network is replaced by a single fiber passive
optical network (PON). RFoG provides the same set of services as traditional cable networks,
but with improved noise performance and reliability. An RFoG micro node (R-ONU) terminates
the fiber connection at the premise. The R-ONU does not terminate VoIP traffic, but passes this
traffic to an eMTA device with an embedded ATA. Therefore, this use case is the same as Use
Case #1, except that the R-ONU sits at the edge of the house and does optical to electrical
conversion...
Battery Backup
Both the R-ONU and the eMTA must have battery backup for the VoIP service to remain
available during power outages. R-ONU deployments often utilize a UPS with a lead acid
Page 9 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
battery. This UPS may be the same UPS that backs up the eMTA, or the eMTA may have its
own embedded battery backup or UPS with battery backup. Current deployments of eMTAs
support backup times of up to 8 hours of standby and 5 hours of talk time. Some R-ONUs and
eMTAs support embedded internal batteries.
Subscribers must be made aware that both the R-ONU and standalone eMTA require power in
order for the VoIP service to operate. The subscriber must also be aware that during an AC
power outage backup power is provided by either UPS battery or by internal batteries in the R-
ONU and eMTA. Subscribers will need to check and maintain batteries in both devices to
ensure continuing VoIP service during commercial AC power outages.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 2 in the Appendix.
Use Case 3 ATA Function in Network Device Outside the Home
Deployment Description
This use case is typically represented by a Fiber-to-the-Home (FTTH) system that incorporates
an outdoor-mounted device known as an optical network unit or terminal (ONU/ONT). These
deployments use a UPS or a wall transformer, but the outdoor deployment model typically uses
the UPS. Having the network device mounted outdoors makes it easy connect to the various
service cables entering the home.
Battery Backup
In most installations, a UPS containing lead acid batteries is mounted inside the home or garage
Page 10 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
to provide battery backup in the event of a commercial power outage. These UPS devices with
battery backup are also available in outdoor rated devices. Although the ONT may support
multiple services, the backup capability is usually associated only with voice services or as a
provisioned option with Ethernet based services. The length of backup time varies, but a
common goal for the customer is to obtain 8 hours of standby battery backup.
This use case provides similar opportunities for new approaches for backup battery design (such
as “D” cell batteries) as described in Use Case 1.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 3 in the Appendix.
Use Case 4 ATA Function in Residential Gateway
Deployment Description
In this use case, the VoIP ATA function is embedded in a residential gateway (or RG) separate
from the network access device. The network can be hybrid fiber coax, twisted pair, or FTTH.
The network device may be located indoor or outdoor. The residential gateway (or RG) may
also include a router, Wi-Fi and other functions, NAT, firewall, etc... A standard analog phone
is connected to the RG via RJ-11. This deployment model is rare in the United States, since RGs
do not typically have battery backup, so service providers usually prefer that the ATA function
be placed in the network device. But a variety of RG vendors do include ATA functionality in
their devices, so this use case could increase in the future.
Page 11 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Battery Backup
In this use case, both the RG and the network device require battery backup, in order for the
VoIP service to continue to operate during a power outage. Consumers should be made aware
that the battery backup for the RG and the network device should not be used in an
interchangeable manner nor should their batteries. If both the RG and the network device are
not provided by the same service provider, the VoIP service provider should assume
responsibility for providing the customer with clear information that without both devices being
battery backed up, the VoIP service will not continue during a power outage.
If properly sized, it is also possible for both devices to utilize the same UPS with battery backup.
One approach would be to back up the RG with the ATA function, and then utilize Power-over-
Ethernet (POE) to power the network device off the RG. An alternative is to power the RG with
POE, using the network device with battery backup, as the power source.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 4 in the Appendix.
Use Case 5 Standalone ATA Device
Deployment Description
In this use case, the ATA function is provided in a separate standalone device.
Page 12 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
These are most often used by VoIP application providers that provide a standalone ATA unit
which connects to the network device via Ethernet. These standalone ATA devices are typically
small boxes with Internet connectivity and one or more analog phone lines (RJ-11). Some also
include speaker phones and higher value features.
These devices are available from major electronics retailers or VoIP application providers.
Today, these devices rarely have battery backup.
Battery Backup
It is important that VoIP service providers educate consumers about the implications of not
having battery backup during a power outage, going forward battery backup solutions are an
option for these VoIP services and service providers can educate the consumer on backup
solutions about this option. Because these ATA devices are owned by and managed by the
consumer, the “D” cell battery backup approach may make the most sense since the consumer
then can easily purchase and maintain the battery backup unit.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 5 in the Appendix.
Use Case 6 ATA in Telephone
Page 13 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Deployment Description
With the widespread adoption of VoIP services there is an expanding use of telephone handsets
that have the ATA function embedded directly in the handset. These are primarily used in
commercial settings, such as enterprises and hotels, in conjunction with VoIP PBX systems.
But these systems are also being used in communal residential settings, such as master planned
communities, continuous care communities with independent living units, “man camps”
operated by mining and oil companies, and resort communities.
Instead of the traditional analog phone connected to a network powered POTS line, the VoIP
handset has embedded ATA functionality which connects via Ethernet to the network. The
phone itself is stationary, as opposed to a mobile device. Power to the phone is provided either
through an AC transformer that powers the phone or via Power-over-Ethernet (POE) where
power is delivered via the Ethernet cable itself.
Battery Backup
VoIP phones that use simple AC-DC transformers do not have battery backup during
commercial power failures. One solution is to power the phone using Power-Over-Ethernet
(POE). Power is then provided via the Ethernet cable from the network device, which would
utilize a UPS with battery backup. The network device could be an FTTH ONU, DSL modem
or cable modem. Most of these units deployed today do not have POE capability, but a POE
device could be provided when the consumer chooses to have battery back-up. Consumers will
need to be educated by the VoIP service provider about POE and the option to maintain the
battery backup to the source network device. Providing POE will reduce the battery backup
time available to the network device due to the higher load.
One key requirement for battery backup in this use case is that the Ethernet port, on the network
device, must be provisioned by the service provider to stay in service during power outages.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 6 in the Appendix.
Page 14 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Use Case 7 ATA in DECT Handset
Deployment Description
DECT is a global standard-Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications. DECT is the basis
for most retail cordless telephones sold in the United States.
Since their introduction DECT cordless phones have connected to the network via a standard
analog POTS interface in the DECT base station. These base stations are powered by an AC-
DC transformer with no battery backup. Even though DECT cordless phones have small,
batteries for in-home mobility, during power outages consumers are not able to make calls from
DECT cordless phones, since the base station is powered by AC.
DECT phones are now becoming available where the base station connects to the network over
Ethernet. VoIP service can then be offered through an ATA embedded in the DECT handset.
In the future, DECT base station technology may be integrated in other devices, including set
top boxes or into network devices, such as cable or DSL modems, which may have battery
backup capabilities.
Page 15 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Battery Backup
DECT phones in use today use AC-to-DC transformers and have no mechanism for battery
backup capability during power outages.
Future network devices may integrate DECT base stations and enable battery backup of the
DECT base station during commercial power outages. Alternatively, DECT base stations could
be designed with battery backup units. If the base station was backed up, the batteries in the
DECT handsets could be used to provide service during power outages. Most DECT handsets
today use “AA” Alkaline batteries that are readily available from retailers.
When service providers provide an embedded or standalone DECT base station, with battery
backup, they will need to educate consumers that the backup includes the base station and that
their cordless phones will be usable during the power outage.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 7 in the Appendix.
Use Case 8 Cellular Handset via Femtocell Base Station
Page 16 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Deployment Description
This use case uses a regular cellular phone in a home with poor cellular network coverage.
Cellular voice is transmitted as IP over the homes broadband access network connection via a
Femtocell. This use case is expected to increase dramatically as consumers shift to using mobile
phones as their primary phone at home. The Femtocell base station connects to the network
device via Ethernet. Today the Femtocell is typically not backed up with batteries. Mobile
phones can connect to the outside cellular network during power failure, assuming sufficient
outdoor coverage.
Battery Backup
In this use case, both the Femtocell and the network device require battery backup in order for
the cellular phone service to continue to work in the home during a power outage. If the
Femtocell and the network device are not provided by the same service provider, the Femtocell
service provider can provide the customer with clear information that without both devices being
battery backed up, the service will not continue during a power outage. Service providers
offering Femtocells will need to work with their Femtocell vendors can make battery backup
available as an option to consumers.
The Best Practices associated with this Use Case are identified by the number 8 in the Appendix.
Page 17 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
Use Case 9 – Wireless Home Phone Devices
Deployment Description
This use case covers a range of wireless home phone devices containing a cellular radio, an
ATA function, an antenna, RJ-11 POTS interface and integrated battery backup. The device is
mounted conveniently in the home and relies on standard AC powering. These devices have
become more prevalent in markets with good wireless coverage and in cases where the
consumer is discontinuing their landline phone service. Consumers can then utilize standard
cordless phones or standard POTS-type telephone devices in the home.
Battery Backup
Consumers who choose this service can be educated that the wireless access device will need
proper battery maintenance to assure operation during commercial power outages. This is
especially important because consumers using POTS-type telephone devices, in connection with
this configuration in the home, may not be aware that their service is not powered by the service
provider. Battery backup options for these fixed wireless units utilize either lead acid or
commonly available retail batteries for backup operation.
Consumers should maintain a traditional POTS-type telephone device in the home to use in
conjunction with the backup operation of the wireless network access device during a power
outage.
Page 18 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
6 Conclusions
The transition from traditional telephone service to VoIP presents challenges for maintaining the
quality and reliability that some consumers may expect from their home voice service. Some
consumers value the ability to maintain voice communications during power outages., The
ability to communicate during outages due to catastrophic storms or other unpredictable events
is not just about the consumers’ interest. Public safety officers, first responders and other public
officials have a need to communicate with citizens through whatever means possible and
emergency telephone can play an important role in this communication.
While battery backup is not commonly used in all of the use cases outlined in this document, we
determined there is a path to battery backup in each case. Service providers will need to be
proactive in engaging with their equipment providers to ensure viable backup options are
brought to market. This is particularly true for use cases that today do not generally offer a
battery backup option. Feedback from consumers, however, illustrates that the need for back-up
power is evolving, as consumers increasingly rely on their cell phones and other portable
devices for emergency communications during a commercial power outage.
We identified three areas where we recommend a more proactive approach by the FCC and
industry to better address the challenges for reliable service across the various VoIP use cases:
1. The choice of the type of battery and the technology available for managing and monitoring
battery capacity offers the opportunity to greatly extend the reliability of the service during
long power outages. “D” cell batteries are an example of how longer outages can be addressed
through existing supply chains, at little cost to the consumer. Improvements in battery
technology are also allowing “D” cells to approach the backup times of lead acid batteries on
single charge discharges. The beauty of “D” cells is that they are easy for consumers to replace
and are readily available in mass quantities through retailers.
2. Power-over-Ethernet and other technologies offer the ability to power devices that might not
be backed up today. POE is an established standard commonly used in hotels and other
commercial applications. It could provide an easy to implement approach for backing up
consumer ATAs that are connected to network devices with battery backup. Another example,
deployed in a limited number of applications, solar powered network devices that rely on a
renewable energy source, not dependent on the electrical grid. We encourage the FCC to
further study the ability of these technologies to make a more sustainable power supply for CPE
devices, such as VoIP ATAs.
Page 19 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
3. The lack of any commonality or standards in DC power supplies negatively impacts the ability to
back up VoIP systems. Every vendor of a DC powered CPE devices makes their own decisions on
power adapters and interface connectors. As an example familiar to all consumers: Every
time a consumer buys a new cordless or mobile phone, it comes with a different adapter and a
different connector, even when they are from the same vendor. If the DC supply and interface
connectors could be standardized, such as we have for AC, it would enhance vendors’ ability to
design better battery backup systems that can be used across different use cases and different
vendors’ equipment. Without these standards, the variety of approaches to premises powering
is likely to get worse with the proliferation of different technologies and VoIP use cases.
7 Appendix: Best Practices
New Best Use Description
Practice Cases
Number
New 01 1,2,3,4, Service providers should provide consumers an affordable
5,6,7,8, option for battery backup of the CPE device that contains the
9 ATA function. Service providers need to inform consumers
of the implications for their voice service during power
interruptions, if they choose not to have battery backup.
New 02 1,2,3,4, Service providers should educate consumers of the need to be
5,6,7,8, informed about the specific impact on their chosen VoIP use
9 case, if not backed up with batteries during a power outage.
New 03 1,3 Service providers should embed the ATA function in network
devices that are easily backed up with batteries. Use cases
that require multiple devices to be backed up with batteries
should be discouraged by service providers as less reliable.
New 04 2,4,5,6, Service providers should work with their network device and
7,8,9 CPE vendors to develop approaches for battery backup for
use cases where little or no backup is offered today.
New 05 4,5,6,7, Service providers should work with their network device
8,9 vendors to develop alternative powering technologies, such as
Power-Over-Ethernet, so that network devices can act as
sources to power cordless base stations and phones with
embedded ATAs.
New 06 1,2,3,4, Service providers should work with their vendors to provide
5,6,7,8, consumers a mechanism for extending the time period of
9 available battery power by including an on/off switch on the
battery unit for use by consumers. This allows battery power
to be saved for when calls need to be made
Page 20 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
New 07 1,2,3,4, Local public safety officials should create disaster response
5,6,7, plans that include plans for backup battery supplies in the
8,9 same way they have a plans for food, water, and fuel during
power outages.
New 08 1,2,3,4, Service providers should work with their vendors to
5,6,7,8, standardize on DC power supplies and connector interfaces
9 for network devices and CPE so that a common battery
backup unit can be used in the home, with multiple devices.
New 09 1,2,3,4 Battery backup power is a finite resource, CPE equipment
should by default turnoff all communication services, except
voice when on battery. Voice line will be in standby mode.
The difference between talk time and standby time as it
relates to the depletion of backup battery is significant. Talk
time (using the phone) will deplete the battery faster than
when the phone is in standby mode (not being used).
New 10 4,5,6,7, In those cases where VoIP service utilizes an Ethernet port on
8 the network device, the Service Provider should ensure that
the Ethernet port is powered during the commercial power
outage.
New 11 1,2,3,4, Service providers should have mechanisms in place to ensure
5,6,7,8, adequate network capacity for emergency calls during
9 commercial power outages.
New 12 1,2,3,4, Service providers should offer consumers who choose battery
5,6,7,8, backup spare batteries, at reasonable cost, for use during
9 times of extended duration power outages or to replace
batteries.
New 13 1,2,3,4, To prolong battery and device reliability, the network or CPE
5,6,7,8, device with the ATA function should be placed in a location
9 that provides adequate ventilation (e.g. ensuring proper
airflow exists around the device and vents are not blocked or
restricted). Also ensure the ATA device is not placed in an
unusually hot, cold or damp location.
New 14 1,2,3,4, Service providers should work with their vendors to provide a
5,6,7,8, mechanism to monitor battery status and determine whether
9 the battery is degraded. This can be through remote
monitoring of batteries as part of the service offered to
consumers or through LEDS visible to consumers.
New 15 1,2,3, The UPS or network device with ATA and embedded batteries
4,5, can have LEDs for visual battery status monitoring. The LEDs
6,7,8,9 for status of embedded batteries should include battery missing,
battery charging, replace battery, and battery full.
New 16 1,2,3,4, Indoor network devices must be grounded in compliance with
5,6,7,8, applicable National Electric code standards and other
9 applicable state and local ordinances
New 17 3 Network devices with an embedded ATA function mounted
outside must be properly grounded. A typical outdoor
installation will include a ground plate on the enclosure that
must be directly bonded to the building's AC utilities earth
ground electrode using a #6 AWG copper conductor
(stranded or solid).Service providers should follow Article
250 of the NEC for appropriate grounding procedures.
New 18 1,2,3,4, Service providers, as part of consumer education efforts,
Page 21 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
5,6,7,8, should provide a full explanation of emergency use
9 capabilities, battery backup units and how to access detailed
information about battery backup as part of the service
providers’ explanation of the service at the customer premise.
New 19 1,2,3,5, Service providers should proactively notify consumers prior
6,7, 8,9 to an anticipated extreme weather event. The service provider
should include detailed information about emergency use
capabilities, battery backup units, or how to access detailed
information about battery backup units. This consumer
outreach can be achieved through specifically designated
storm preparation information, through routinely listed
information on the provider’s website, or other means to
ensure reaching all consumers.
New 20 1,2,3,5, If service providers rely on any hardware to be placed at
6,7,9 customer premise by the customer, they should provide a full
explanation of operations during power outage, including
detailed information about battery backup units, in their
installation manual and on their website.
New 21 1,2,3 Service providers that offer remote battery monitoring through
status reporting telemetry should offer a battery replacement
service for an additional fee to the consumer.
New 22 2,4,5,6, Service providers should educate consumers that DC power
7,8 supplies and batteries for network devices and other customer
premises equipment are not interchangeable.
New 23 1,2,3,4, Service providers with no battery monitoring capability should
5,6,7,8, offer a voluntary program to notify consumers, who choose to be
9 reminded, to check battery status based on the installation date,
or the battery’s manufacturing date, and the theoretical average
life expectancy of the battery.
New 24 1,2,3,4, Service providers should provide information about where
5,6,7,8, consumers can purchase replacement batteries, model numbers,
9 and price on their website.
New 25 1,2,3,4, Service providers should provide clear instructions to consumers
5,6,7,8, as to the proper disposal/recycling options for their used
9 batteries. The battery purchase or replacement process in the
service provider agreement must instruct the subscriber on
proper battery recycling or disposal. Batteries for recycling are
accepted at no charge at various locations identified at
www.call2recycle.org or 800-8BATTERY. It should be noted
that that many localities and states have regulations regarding
battery recycling.
New 26 1,2,4,5, Service providers should offer consumers a battery recycling kit
6,7,8 part of the battery backup service. The recycling kit is then sent
to the customer along with the replacement battery. Upon
receipt, the customer is to install the replacement battery, put the
used battery in the recycling bag, affix the pre-paid shipping
label to the bag, and ship the used battery to a pre-designated
recycling center.
New 27 1,2,3,4, Service providers should offer, as an option to consumers,
5,6,7,8, the additional purchase of whole home power protection
9 device placed at the main electrical panel to prevent damage
Page 22 of 23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 10
September, 2014
Final Report
to CPE devices, including the device with the ATA function
during extreme weather conditions
New 28 8 Service providers should ensure that users understand that both
the network device and the Femtocell base station must work
together to provide connectivity to the cellular phone. Assuming
the in-home cellular coverage is poor, in order for a cellular
phone to continue to work during a power outage through a
Femtocell, both the network device and the Femtocell base
station need to have battery backup.
New 29 1,2,3,4, Service providers should offer detailed instructions along with
5,6,7,8, step by step photos or drawings of the battery replacement
9 procedure.
Page 23 of 23
