HTML Content from https://www.fcc.gov/cybersecurity-and-communications-reliability-division-public-safety-and-homeland-security-bureau:
Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability Division, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau | Federal Communications Commission Skip to main content Skip to search An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government
              organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
              the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
              secure websites. Browse by category Browse by bureaus & offices About the FCC About the FCC About the FCC Overview What We Do Rulemaking Process Leadership FCC Initiatives Find People Organizational Charts Advisory Committees Jobs and Internships Contracting Strategic Plans & Budgets Contact FY 2025 Congressional Budget Justification Privacy Policy Accessibility Program Proceedings & Actions Proceedings & Actions Proceedings and Actions Overview Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS) Commission Documents (EDOCS) Most Active Proceedings Items on Circulation Ex-Parte Daily Digest Mergers & Transactions Auctions Licensing & Databases Licensing & Databases Overview About Licensing Databases Fees Forms FCC Registration System (CORES) System Alerts & Notifications ASR CEFS COALS CORES DIRS EA ECFS EDOCS ELS ETFS ETRS GenMen HAM KDB KIDVID LMS ICFS NORS PIF PIRATE PSIX-ESIX RLD TCB ULS URS VPD Reports & Research Reports & Research Reports and Data Overview Reports Data Guides Maps Working Papers For Developers Reference Information Center (RIC) Workload Dashboard News & Events News & Events News and Events Overview Headlines Commission Meetings Events Archived Events FCC Podcast Notes from the FCC Press Resources FCC Blog RSS Feeds & Email Signup February 2025 Open Commission Meeting For Consumers For Consumers Help Center Overview Consumer Complaint Center Disability Rights Headlines Social Media Robocalls Consumer Complaint Center Consumer Enforcement Media Public Safety Space Wireless Wireline Offices Search X Search Home Public Safety Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability Division, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau Public Safety and Homeland Security Network Reliability Resources Emergency Alert System Wireless Emergency Alerts Incident Management and Investigations Outage Information Sharing The Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability Division (CCR) helps ensure that the nation’s communications networks are reliable and secure so that the public can communicate, especially during emergencies. CCR identifies and promotes network improvements through investigations, stakeholder-driven processes, and rulemakings. Focus areas include emergency communications, such as 911 and emergency alerting, network performance during disasters, and major network outages and threats. Network Reliability. CCR monitors and analyzes communications network outages to identify trends, assess actions the FCC can take to help prevent and mitigate outages, and where necessary, assist response and recovery activities. Network Reliability Resources . Information on ensuring and improving network reliability, including resources related to emergency alerting, disaster and emergency response, and cybersecurity. Disaster Preparedness and Response. During emergencies, CCR collects information on the operational status of communications infrastructure to support government disaster assistance efforts and to monitor restoration and recovery.  CCR also oversees and monitors industry efforts to strengthen wireless network resiliency. Disaster Information Reporting System (DIRS) . Communications service providers (including wireless, wireline, broadcast, and cable companies) voluntarily report infrastructure status and situational awareness information in DIRS during emergencies for which DIRS is activated . Mandatory Disaster Response Initiative . The recently-adopted rules require improved disaster response and preparedness by certain wireless providers including mandatory roaming and mutual aid. Risks and Vulnerabilities. The Division works to identify and reduce risks to the reliability of the nation’s communications network. Communications Security Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC). CSRIC is a federal advisory committee that makes recommendations to the FCC on a range of public safety and homeland security-related communications matters, including: (1) the reliability of communications systems and infrastructure; (2) 911, Enhanced 911 (E911), and Next Generation 911 (NG911); (3) emergency alerting; and (4) national security/emergency preparedness (NS/EP) communications, including law enforcement access to communications. Supply Chain. In today’s increasingly connected world, safeguarding the security and integrity of America’s communications infrastructure has never been more important; as such, CCR conducts targeted reviews into companies that may pose a potential national security threat to the integrity of U.S. communications networks or the communications supply chain. Division Leadership Leon Kenworthy Division Chief Leon.Kenworthy@fcc.gov Drew Morin Deputy Division Chief Drew.Morin@fcc.gov James Wiley Deputy Division Chief James.Wiley@fcc.gov (202) 418-1678 George Donato Associate Division Chief George.Donato@fcc.gov (202) 418-0729 Bureau/Office: Public Safety and Homeland Security Tags : Public Safety 9-1-1 Reliability 911 Disaster Information Reporting System Network Outage Reporting System Wireless Emergency Alerts Updated: Tuesday, May 7, 2024 Related Links Related Links Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Text Federal Communications Commission 45 L Street NE Washington, DC 20554 Link Phone: 1-888-225-5322 ASL Video Call: 1-844-432-2275 Fax: 1-866-418-0232 Contact Us Visiting FCC Facilities Link Website Policies & Notices Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Data Digital Strategy Open Government Directive Plain Writing Act RSS Feeds & Email Updates Accessibility Vulnerability Disclosure Policy USA.gov Text CATEGORIES Link About the FCC Proceedings & Actions Licensing & Databases Reports & Research News & Events For Consumers Text BUREAUS & OFFICES Link Consumer Enforcement Inspector General Media Public Safety Space Wireless Wireline Offices Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Youtube Instagram Federal Communications Commission
