PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG8_Report1_3Dec2014.pdf:
DECEMBER 2014 WORKING GROUP 8
SUBMARINE CABLE
ROUTING AND LANDING
Final Report – Protection of Submarine Cables
Through Spatial SeparationThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................ 1
BACKGROUND ON CSRIC IV AND WORKING GROUP 8............................ 14
Objectives and Methods ........................................................................................ 14
Membership .......................................................................................................... 15
BACKGROUND ON SUBMARINE CABLES AND THE FCC’S ROLE IN
REGULATING THEM ............................................................................................ 17
Submarine Cables Are Critically Important to U.S. National Security and the U.S.
Economy ............................................................................................................... 17
Scope and Elements of Submarine Cables............................................................ 19
Complex Federal Regulation ................................................................................ 21
3.3.1 The FCC Functions as the Primary Regulator of Submarine
Cables Landing in the United States ......................................................... 21
3.3.2 Other Federal Regulation ......................................................................... 22
3.3.3 State/Territorial and Local Regulation ..................................................... 22
SPATIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMARINE CABLE INSTALLATION
AND MAINTENANCE ............................................................................................ 23
Cable Characteristics ............................................................................................ 23
Marine Route Study and Survey ........................................................................... 25
Cable Operations ................................................................................................... 26
4.3.1 Access for Vessels and Equipment ............................................................ 26
4.3.2 Installation ................................................................................................ 26
4.3.3 Cable Retrieval ......................................................................................... 27
4.3.4 Splices and Repairs ................................................................................... 28
RISKS OF DAMAGE TO SUBMARINE CABLES.............................................. 30
Traditional Risks ................................................................................................... 31
5.1.1 Commercial Fishing.................................................................................. 31
5.1.2 Anchoring .................................................................................................. 32
5.1.3 Dredging and Dumping ............................................................................ 32
5.1.4 Oil and Gas Development ......................................................................... 33
5.1.5 Clustering of Submarine Cable Systems ................................................... 35
5.1.6 Earthquakes and Tsunamis ....................................................................... 35
5.1.7 Sea Floor Geology .................................................................................... 35
5.1.8 Weather ..................................................................................................... 35
Emerging Risks ..................................................................................................... 36
5.2.1 Offshore Renewable Energy Development ............................................... 36
Offshore Wind .............................................................................. 36
iiThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Marine and Hydrokinetic Projects ................................................ 37
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Projects ................................ 38
Risks of Renewable-Energy Development to Submarine Cables . 39
Deep-Sea Mining .......................................................................... 41
INTERNATIONAL AND U.S. LEGAL REGIMES .............................................. 42
Submarine Cables Enjoy Unique Treaty Rights and Protections Granted to No
Other Activity in the Marine Environment ........................................................... 42
Federal Offenses for Cable Damage ..................................................................... 45
MODELS FOR CABLE PROTECTION ............................................................... 46
Industry Standards and Cable-Awareness Programs ............................................ 46
7.1.1 International Cable Protection Committee ............................................... 47
7.1.2 North American Submarine Cable Association ........................................ 49
7.1.3 Subsea Cables UK..................................................................................... 49
Default and Minimum Separation Distances ........................................................ 50
Cable Protection Zones and Corridors .................................................................. 52
Laws Establishing Civil and Criminal Liability for Cable Damage ..................... 53
Marine Spatial Planning ........................................................................................ 53
Private Coordination Arrangements ..................................................................... 54
7.6.1 Cable-Fishing Committees ........................................................................ 54
7.6.2 Private Agreements with Infrastructure Owners ...................................... 54
Supplement to Spatial Separation: Mesh Networking ......................................... 55
EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................................................... 56
Evaluation ............................................................................................................. 56
Recommendations ................................................................................................. 57
iiiThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This Report 1 of the Submarine Cable Routing and Landing Working Group of CSRIC
IV (“WG8”) examines the natural and man-made risks to submarine cable infrastructure
and recommends the adoption of additional protection measures, best practices, and
policies by submarine cable operators and by the U.S. Government to mitigate those
risks. Recent spatial conflicts between installed and planned submarine cables and other
marine activities (including offshore dredging, beach replenishment, and offshore wind
farms and marine hydrokinetic energy projects) highlight the urgent need for greater
understanding of the spatial requirements for submarine cable installation and
maintenance, recognition and implementation of spatial separation standards and
methodologies (including default rules where coordination between marine activities
does not occur or fails to resolve spatial conflicts), and development of additional
standards and policies to ensure the resilience of U.S. submarine cable infrastructure and
continuity of communications.
1.1 The Importance of Submarine Cables
Contrary to popular perception, more than 95 percent of all U.S. international voice, data,
and Internet traffic travels by submarine cable—a percentage that continues to increase
over time. Submarine cables provide higher-quality, more reliable, more secure, and less
expensive communications than satellites provide. Submarine cables provide the
principal domestic connectivity between the contiguous United States and Alaska,
Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Marianas, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.
Virgin Islands, and provide substantial intrastate or intra-territorial connectivity within
each of Alaska, Hawaii, the Northern Marianas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Submarine cables play a critical role both in ensuring that the United States can
communicate domestically and with the rest of the world, and in supporting the critical
economic and national security endeavors of the United States and its citizens.
Submarine cables support U.S.-based commerce abroad and provide access to Internet-
based content, a substantial proportion of which is located in the United States. They
also carry the vast majority of civilian and military U.S. Government traffic, as the U.S.
Government does not own and operate its own submarine cables.
The territorial-sea, exclusive economic zone (“EEZ”), and outer continental shelf
(“OCS”) areas of the United States and its territories contain significant existing and
planned submarine cable infrastructure, and more is planned. At least 55 in-service
submarine cable systems traverse these areas, and at least 12 more have been announced
or are currently under construction.
Submarine cables—which typically have the diameter of a garden hose—are installed
and repaired by cable ships built specifically for cable-related operations and designed for
covering vast distances and multi-month deployments. Cable ships are crewed by highly
1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
trained and experienced crews that use specialized equipment working on the surface of
the sea, in the water column, and on the sea floor to install and repair submarine cables,
which have a planned commercial lifespan of 25 years but are often used for longer
periods of time. In deep-sea areas, submarine cables rest on the surface of the sea floor.
In shallow coastal areas, submarine cables are typically armored externally with steel
wire rod and buried to a depth of up to two meters. Cable maintenance providers contract
with individual owners of submarine cable systems and/or with regional maintenance
authorities for the provision of long-term maintenance services.
Although damage to submarine cables is rare, it is most often caused by human activities
such as commercial fishing (in which trawl nets, clam dredges, and other bottom-contact
gear ensnare cables), vessel anchoring, dredging related to sand and mineral extraction,
petroleum extraction, pipeline construction and maintenance, renewable energy
construction and maintenance, and other cable activity. Seabed uses change over time,
and activities associated with renewable energy projects located near submarine cables
raise the potential for damage to submarine cables and pose particular challenges for both
the submarine and energy industries. Submarine cables are also at risk from natural
hazards such as hurricanes, underwater landslides, and seismic events such as
earthquakes and tsunamis resulting therefrom. These risks can be magnified by the
clustering of cables in the same sea floor areas.
Damage to submarine cables can pose grave risks to U.S. national security and the U.S.
economy, given the U.S. Government’s reliance on such cables to communicate with its
civilian and military personnel worldwide and with other governments, and given the
dollar-value of commerce conducted using submarine cables. Timely repairs are
therefore critical, and maintenance providers and cable ships must be prepared to respond
rapidly, with vessels on stand-by with continuously-qualified personnel and appropriate
equipment. In spite of these efforts, cable damage has in many cases resulted in
significant disruptions of communications and slower Internet speeds.
Although numerous federal, state, and local government agencies issue licenses,
easements, and permits governing installation and construction activities associated with
submarine cables landing in the United States, in practice the Federal Communications
Commission (“FCC”) functions as the primary regulator (under the Cable Landing
License Act of 1921) and is responsible for licensing all international submarine cables
landing in the United States. The FCC is therefore in the best position to advocate for
cable-protection initiatives and coordination among various governmental agencies. The
FCC plays a coordinating role in various interagency processes, and other governmental
agencies frequently look to the FCC for guidance on matters pertaining to submarine
cables. No other agency collects as much timely or centralized information about
planned and in-service cables and their locations.
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
1.2 Spatial Needs for Submarine Cable Installation and Maintenance
To install and maintain submarine cables and minimize outage time in connection with
repairs, submarine cable operators require ready and unfettered access for cable ships and
equipment to the ocean surface, water column, and seabed around a submarine cable. To
achieve this and to minimize conflicts with other marine activities, submarine cable
operators use a variety of coordination and cooperation mechanisms. These include cable
spacing and crossing standards, cable awareness programs and outreach, coordination
with other users of marine and coastal areas (particularly commercial fishermen), and
marine spatial planning. An effective submarine cable protection regime must account
for the physical characteristics of submarine cables and the mechanical characteristics of
the installation vessels and tools. These characteristics—along with weather, sea, and
seabed conditions—greatly determine the specifics of a given cable installation or repair.
Cable Characteristics. Cable armoring helps to protect a submarine fiber-optic cable
from fault-triggering events in the marine and coastal environment. A “fault” is an event
associated with an installed submarine cable requiring some maintenance or repair
activity to ensure continued useful service of the cable and may be caused by natural or
man-made factors. Cable manufacturers purposely build torque into armored cable to
permit coiling in cylindrical storage tanks in warehouses and ships prior to deployment.
Torque, however, also causes the cable to loop back on itself when slack. Loops can
result in transmission failures if pulled tight, they can cause the cable to stand upright on
the seabed, and they make the cable more susceptible to physical damage due to greater
exposure above the seabed. To avoid having the cable throw loops when it is uncoiled, it
is laid on the sea floor under tension.
Marine Route Study and Survey. To identify the safest and most economic route for a
new submarine cable, the owner will commission a desktop study and a marine survey.
These two undertakings will attempt to identify all of risks and define the safest cable
route. Through the study, the owner and its supplier can often minimize or eliminate
hazards and conflicts. With greater development of the sea floor in the U.S. territorial
sea, EEZ, and OCS, however, the availability of suitable unused routes has been
exhausted, forcing submarine cable operators to accept at least some risk. To ensure
effective identification of existing and future hazards, submarine cable operators consult
with commercial fishermen and their unions, government agencies, and other marine
industries. Submarine cable operators then use the results of the route survey to modify
the initial route identified in the desktop study.
Access for Vessels and Equipment. Cable ships are large vessels (often more than 125
meters in length) that require space in which to maneuver when installing or repairing
submarine cables, and to accommodate the effect of bad weather on the ocean. Offshore
developments involving large structures, like oil platforms, turbine towers, and
submerged structures, present obstacles precluding cable ships from having ready access
to the sea floor for new installations (and for repair of previously-installed cables).
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Heavy vessel traffic, fishing or military operations and seasonal restrictions can also
impede or delay installation.
Installation: Cable installation operations are conducted 24 hours per day. The cable
end is floated ashore from the primary cable ship or from a smaller secondary one. If a
secondary ship is used to pre-install the shore end, then the cable ship will splice to the
shore end and continue the lay. In near-shore areas, cable is generally buried to protect it.
In limited areas where there are no significant fishing or anchoring risks or where the
seabed does not permit burial, it will be laid on the surface of the sea floor. During
installation, it is critical that the cable lay flat.
Cable Retrieval. To recover a cable from the sea floor for repair purposes, a cable ship
usually grapples for the cable by dragging a grapnel on the sea floor. ROV use is limited
to surface-laid cable in shallower depths between 50 and 2000 meters with moderate
currents and good visibility. The grapnel (whether for surface-laid or buried cable) is
lowered to the sea floor from lines on the cable ship and dragged in a direction
perpendicular to the cable. This allows the grapnel to dig into the seabed and under the
cable, maximizing the chance that the grapnel will hook the cable (rather than graze or
accidentally release it) and bring it to the surface of the seabed. Current ship positioning
technology allows for extremely accurate placement of this gear and for controlled cable
retrieval. Nevertheless, bad weather, heavy seas, or strong currents can decrease the
accuracy of these operations—a situation which poses a greater risk to other submarine
cables or sea floor installations in the vicinity of the target cable.
Splices and Repairs. A damaged submarine cable must be repaired onboard a cable ship.
But a cable (whether tensioned or not) that is resting on, or buried in, the seabed will lack
sufficient slack to reach the surface for repair. Unless a cable is already severed,
therefore, it must first be cut in order to be brought to the surface. This retrieval
operation takes at least three passes with the grapnel—one to cut the cable, a second to
bring up and buoy one end of the cable, and a third to bring up and bring onboard the
second end. After the ends are repaired and tested, a section of cable must be spliced in
between the two ends in order to have them meet at the surface and restore connectivity.
This additional section is typically two-and-a-half times the depth of water in length.
This length permits what was previously a cable lying flat on the sea floor to reach up to
the cable ship, provide length for manipulation and repair activities on board, and reach
back down to the sea floor. This final configuration must be carefully placed back on the
seabed in a direction perpendicular to the line of the original cable so that the cable lies
flat on the sea floor and does not throw loops.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
1.3 Risks of Damage to Submarine Cables
Submarine cables are subject to diverse natural and man-made risks of damage that vary
depending on the state of implementation or operation of the system. These risks vary by
physical conditions of the sea floor and ocean and by political and economic
characteristics of adjacent coastal states and their marine activities and industries. Some
of these risks are well-established while others are emerging. Some traditional risks have
been contained or even minimized, while others continue to threaten submarine cables
with some regularity.
In general, the more intensive use of U.S. coastal and marine areas for resource and
infrastructure development activities creates a scarcity of unused and underused areas
that might otherwise minimize risks to submarine cables simply due to wide spatial
separations. First, these activities pose direct risks to submarine cables by threatening
installed cables with equipment, anchors, infrastructure installation and operation, and
resource exploration, exploitation, and transport. Second, these activities impair access
to installed submarine cable systems, increasing repair costs and the length of
communications outages. Third, these activities can distort routing and landing
decisions, making it risky to use particular routes to reach well-established cable landing
stations and terrestrial network POPs or, conversely, encouraging clustering of cables in
narrow corridors and landings, which magnify the risks of damage and communications
outages across multiple systems due to particular natural or man-made events.
 Commercial Fishing: Historically, commercial fishing has accounted for more
than 40 percent of all submarine cable faults worldwide. Commercial fishing-
related damage is most often caused by bottom-tending fishing gear such as trawl
nets and dredges, but it is also caused by long lines anchored to the seabed and
pot and trap fisheries using grapnels for gear retrieval. Submarine cable operators
use cable armoring and burial, cable awareness and liaison programs, and
programs to compensate fishermen for snagged gear, and these measures have
been very effective in minimizing cable damage in the U.S. territorial sea and
OCS.
 Anchoring: Anchoring is the second most common source of damage to
submarine cables on a worldwide basis. Anchoring threats include: improperly-
stowed anchors, which release or fall overboard and can be dragged for great
lengths along the sea floor, damaging cables along its path; anchoring outside of
approved anchorages and near installed submarine cables; anchors dragged by
properly-anchored vessels, depending on sea conditions; and an anchor dropped
in a marine emergency. Submarine cable operators seek to route around
designated anchorages.
 Dredging and Dumping: Sand and gravel dredging and beach replenishment
authorized by the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Ocean Energy
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior (“BOEM”) can damage
submarine cables through the use of vessel anchors, barges, and pipelines used to
recover, transport, and pump dredged material back onto shore. Moreover, sand
and gravel dredging disturbs sea floor sediments, triggering erosion in other areas
as sand migrates to fill the dredged area. This reduces the burial depth of
submarine cables—exposing them to greater risk of damage by commercial
fishing and anchoring—and can damage cables through abrasion.
 Oil and Gas Development: Historically, oil and gas development off the coasts
of the United States has focused on the Gulf of Mexico, where there are relatively
few submarine cables. As the demand for energy increases and as technology
evolves, oil and gas infrastructure will likely move offshore into deeper waters
and potentially to new areas along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Uncoordinated
offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation, and transport activities pose
significant risks to submarine cables, including: direct physical disturbance
through the use of anchors for production platforms and related exploration and
production equipment; pipeline proximity to and crossings with cables, which
pose direct physical disturbance risks with installation and maintenance and
additional risks with cable-pipeline crossings; and impaired access to submarine
cables both at the surface (for cable ships) and on the sea floor (for cables) during
installation and maintenance, all of which increases the complexity, costs, and
time required to complete installations and repairs and can increase the costs to
customers of network outages.
 Clustering of Submarine Cable Systems: The clustering of submarine cables
along particular routes (whether to avoid unfavorable sea floor topography,
natural hazards, or man-made hazards such as dredging and dumping areas,
fishing grounds, and energy infrastructure) increases the risk that installation or
maintenance of one cable will cause direct physical disturbance to another, such
as with plowing and grappling operations.
 Earthquakes and Tsunamis: Earthquakes can trigger subsea landslides that
sever or abrade cables. They can also trigger tsunamis, the force of which can
damage both submarine cables and cable landing stations.
 Sea Floor Geology: Submarine cable operators prefer to land their cables in
locations that have stable, benign landing features. Bottom features such as
pinnacles or boulder fields that would leave a cable exposed, high current areas
that could lead to chafing, long tidal flats, evidence of trawling (trawl scars), etc.
require special consideration for both installation and maintenance of submarine
cable systems.
 Weather: Installation of submarine cable systems can be impacted or at risk
from severe climate events. Severe seasonal weather conditions such as
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
hurricanes, gales, and storms, shore ice, and icebergs can dictate the available
“weather window” for cable installation when considered in conjunction with the
operational capabilities of the cable ship and its ability to lay and bury the cable.
 Offshore Renewable Energy Development: Demand for environmentally-
friendly and domestic energy sources has created significant interest in three
particular sources of renewable energy: (1) offshore wind; (2) wave, tidal, and
ocean current (referred to generally as marine hydrokinetic (“MHK”) energy); and
(3) ocean thermal energy conversion (“OTEC”). These projects are authorized
principally by BOEM and/or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(“FERC”). Offshore wind energy is the most familiar offshore renewable energy
source because the technology is the most mature, but there is continuing interest
in in-water testing of MHK and OTEC technologies with a goal of commercial-
scale development. Ultimately, offshore renewable energy is expected to prove a
significant source of low-carbon energy for the United States. Offshore
renewable energy development will, however, pose risks to submarine cables and
vice versa. Placement of offshore generating facilities and mooring anchors near
submarine cables increases the likelihood of a cable fault due to the risk of sea
floor scouring. The placement and maintenance of structures on the seabed or in
the water column pose similar risks to submarine cables as do oil and gas
development, absent sufficient spatial separation. Power transmission cables pose
physical risks and personnel safety risks during submarine cable installation and
maintenance operations and entail multiple crossings of submarine cables.
 Deep-Sea Mining: Deep-sea mining to harvest polymetallic nodules, cobalt-rich
manganese crusts, and sea floor massive sulfides—both exploratory and
exploitative—can cause direct physical disturbance of the seabed, threatening
operation of undersea cables by anchoring of production support vessels and
platforms and additional equipment on the sea floor. Minerals mining operations
present a threat of erosion and abrasion similar to that presented by wind farm
operations; destabilization of the sea floor; and redeposited sediments. All of
these may result in exposing or suspending cables above the sea floor, thereby
subjecting them to a heightened risk of damage from vessel traffic and fishing
nets and anchors, as well as the risk of debris accumulating on cables. Finally,
large offshore developments impede access to undersea telecommunications cable
systems both at the surface (for cable vessels) and on the sea floor.
1.4 International and U.S. Legal Regimes
U.S. treaty obligations and customary international law (as observed by the United
States) recognize unique freedoms for the installation and maintenance of submarine
cables in a coastal state’s exclusive economic zone (extending 200 nautical miles
seaward) and on its continental shelf. These rights and freedoms are not accorded to
energy-related activities, commercial fishing, or marine transport, and sometimes these
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
rights and freedoms take legal precedence over those of other marine activities. Various
international treaties dating back to 1884 guarantee unique freedoms to lay, maintain, and
repair submarine cables—freedoms not granted for any other marine activities—and
restrict the ability of coastal states (i.e., countries) to regulate them. These treaty
obligations are now treated as customary international law, in particular by the United
States. These treaty obligations also require coastal states to prevent willful or negligent
damage to cables and “have due regard to cables or pipelines already in position.”
Submarine cables are thus afforded a great degree of protection from regulation or
interference by coastal states, reflecting the vital role that submarine cables play in
facilitating communications, commerce, and government.
Consistent with the 1884 Convention on cable protection, U.S. law provides that
damaging a submarine cable—whether deliberately or through negligence—is a federal
offense punishable by fine, imprisonment, or both. The penalties, however, are unlikely
to deter negligent or willful damage and do not even cover the cost of the repair. For
willful damage, U.S. law provides for a fine of up to $5,000 and/or a prison term not to
exceed two years. For culpably negligent damage, U.S. law provides for a fine of up to
$500 and a prison term not to exceed three months. Federal law imposes obligations on
fishing vessels to keep their nets from interfering with or damaging submarine cables,
and requires fishing vessels to maintain a minimum distance from any vessel engaged in
laying submarine cable or any buoy placed to mark the position of a submarine cable.
U.S. law provides for a fine up to $250 and a prison term not to exceed 10 days for
fishing-related damage.
1.5 Cable Protection Methods
Most models of cable protection focus on spatial separation between submarine cables
and other marine activities (including other submarine cables) and extensive coordination
among marine activities. With sufficient separation, the risks of direct disturbance via
equipment or anchors or impeded access for establishment of diverse routes or timely
maintenance are minimized. Key protection methods include:
 Industry Standards for Consultation, Coordination, and Spatial Separation:
Industry organizations—including the International Cable Protection Committee
(“ICPC”) and the North American Submarine Cable Association (“NASCA”)
have developed and/or endorsed recommendations (which, in spite of their names,
are intended to be authoritative, not simply suggestions) for consultation and
coordination among marine activities and spatial separation, including:
o ICPC Recommendation 2 No. 10, which recommends that parallel
submarine cables maintain a separation distance of the lesser of 3 times
depth of water or (where not achievable) 2 times the depth of water
following consultation and agreement between affected parties—a
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
separation standard the principles of which also apply to spacing of
submarine cables and other marine infrastructure;
o ICPC Recommendation 3 No. 10, which establishes criteria for crossings
of submarine cables, power transmission cables, and pipelines;
o ICPC Recommendation 4 No. 8, which establishes coordination
procedures for repair operations near in-service submarine cables;
o ICPC Recommendation 6 No. 8A, which recommends actions for
effective protection of installed submarine cables;
o ICPC Recommendation 7 No. 6, which recommends coordination
procedures between submarine cables and offshore civil engineering
works;
o ICPC Recommendation 8 No. 7A, which recommends coordination
procedures for offshore seismic survey work in the vicinity of in-service
submarine cables;
o ICPC Recommendation 13 No. 2, which establishes a methodology for
determining site-specific proximity limits between submarine cables and
offshore wind facilities and a default separation distance in shallower
waters of 500 meters on either side of an in-service submarine cable—a
separation standard the principles of which also apply to other offshore
renewable energy projects.
o Subsea Cables UK Guideline No. 6 (endorsed by NASCA), which
establishes principles for determining safe proximity distances and
negotiating proximity agreements between offshore wind farms and
submarine cables and reflects extensive experience in the United Kingdom
with managing spatial conflicts between offshore wind farms and
submarine cables.
 Cable Awareness Programs: To reduce anchoring- and fishing-related risks,
submarine cable operators notify nautical charting authorities of installed
submarine cable locations, and share location information with commercial
fishermen. As part of such efforts, NASCA regularly shares route position list
(“RPL”) data with commercial fishermen and government agencies. In some
jurisdictions, such as Australia and New Zealand, the governments themselves
disseminate cable route information and liaise directly with fishing and maritime
industries.
 Default and Minimum Separation Distances: A default separation distance
establishes a minimum separation distance between an existing submarine cable
and another marine or coastal activity in the absence of any mutual agreement to
allow the activity in closer proximity to the submarine cable. A minimum
separation distance establishes an absolute minimum separation distance between
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
the submarine cable and the other marine or coastal activity. Although no U.S.
federal, state, or local government agency has promulgated laws or regulations
establishing default or minimum separation distances, BOEM has reached an
informal agreement with the U.S. Coast Guard not to allow the installation of
wind energy structures within one nautical mile of a traffic separation scheme,
and the U.S. Coast Guard also regularly establishes safety zones around facilities
energy exploration and exploitation activities on the U.S. outer continental shelf.
Consistent with ICPC and other industry standards, many countries—as diverse as
China, Denmark, Indonesia, Russia, Singapore, and the United Kingdom—have
established default or minimum separation distances to protect submarine cables.
 Cable Protection Zones and Corridors: Unlike default separation distances or
buffer zones, cable protection zones and corridors prohibit specified activities
posing risks to submarine cables—including fishing, anchoring, and dredging—
within fixed geographic areas. Cable protection zones grant protections to
submarine cables that choose to locate—or are already located—therein.
Corridors, by contrast, require submarine cable operators to route their
infrastructure in defined geographic areas. Both Australia and New Zealand—
which have the world’s most advanced cable protection regimes—have
established cable protection zones, which they enforce with air and sea patrols
and for which they impose severe infringement penalties. By contrast, submarine
cable operators have generally opposed cable corridors out of concern that such
corridors (a) are likely to be narrow and therefore provide insufficient spatial
separation from other submarine cables for installation and maintenance, (b)
encourage geographic clustering of submarine cables, which magnifies the risk
that a single natural or man-made event could damage multiple cables or cable
landing stations and thereby impair the continuity of communications on
particular geographic routes, and (c) limit landing options to particular coastal
points, which might be inconveniently located with respect to terrestrial backhaul
networks and customers.
 Laws Establishing Civil and Criminal Liability for Cable Damage: The 1884
Convention requires state parties to establish offenses for cable damage. As noted
above, the United States has established offenses for willful and negligent injury
to submarine cables, but the penalty amounts have not been updated since
enactment more than 125 years ago. Other countries, such as Australia and New
Zealand have established more substantial penalties, ones that are more likely to
have a deterrent effect on those who might damage submarine cables. Countries
such as Sweden require that if the owner of a cable or pipeline causes damage to
another cable or pipeline, the owner shall pay the cost of repairing the damage.
 Marine Spatial Planning: To date, U.S. federal agencies have generally
undertaken only site-specific analyses for individual cases and projects, which
places the burden on the submarine cable operator to justify a particular method
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
of protection. Some U.S. states have been more inclined than others to address
matters relating to cable separation, installation, available routing, and landing
locations through spatial planning. NASCA participates directly as a stakeholder
organization in the Mid-Atlantic Council on the Ocean (“MARCO”) and the
Northeast Regional Ocean Council (“NROC”).
 Cable-Fishing Committees: Commercial fishermen (particularly those engaged
in bottom trawling and crab pot fishing) and submarine cable owners have formed
regional committees in specific areas around the world to address sharing of the
seabed. In most of these cases, the parties have entered into a cooperative
agreement on cable routing to avoid highly fished areas, declaration of no-fishing
zones, and fishing procedures in the vicinity of submarine cables. Particularly in
the United States, these agreements have proved very effective in reducing the
risk of damage to submarine cables by commercial fishing activities.
 Crossing Agreements: Submarine cable owners have long entered into crossing
agreements with pipeline and power transmission cable operators to define the
locations of the respective infrastructures, agreed crossing notification procedures,
and means and methods for the activity. With offshore renewable energy
infrastructure, however, there have been no such agreements with submarine
cable operators, although submarine cable operators remain interested in
negotiating such agreements. This is due in part to the relative newness of such
projects but also a general lack of awareness of submarine cables, a failure to
consult with submarine cable operators, and a failure to comply with the
consultation requirements of other agencies.
 Mesh Networking: In addition to the measures noted above, which focus on
spatial separation of submarine cables from each other and other marine activities,
some submarine cable operators also seek to minimize the risk of service outages
from any one network component through the use of optical mesh-network
topologies. A mesh network topology is a decentralized network design in which
each node on the network connects to at least two other nodes on the network and
in which the network permits reconfiguration and routing around broken or
unreliable nodes, ensuring a self-healing capability. The use of optical mesh
topologies by service providers serves to enhance the resiliency of submarine
cable networks, but it is not a substitute for other cable protection measures.
1.6 Evaluation and Recommendations
Existing submarine cable protection mechanisms in the United States are inadequate in
absolute terms and fall far short of measures adopted by other developed and developing
countries. Although the U.S. Government has identified submarine cables as critical
infrastructure, no U.S. federal agency has transposed that finding in practical terms to
adopt or enforce cable-protection standards or policies. Moreover, federal agencies
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
generally fail to coordinate among themselves and with their state and local counterparts
on even an ad hoc basis to ensure submarine cable protection, resulting in continuing
problems with proposals and licenses for offshore energy installations and dredging
projects, and beach replenishment projects directly over or adjacent to installed
submarine cables. Consequently, this disconnect between the acknowledged importance
of submarine cable infrastructure and U.S. Government policies and mechanisms for
protecting that infrastructure continues to pose a serious threat to U.S. national security
and the U.S. economy. Although the United States leads the world in submarine cable
connectivity, its cable protection regime is significantly underdeveloped in comparison to
developed and developing countries.
Due to a lack of awareness of submarine cables, their operational requirements, and their
national security and economic significance, federal, state, and local agencies can
exacerbate risks to submarine cable infrastructure. The self-help mechanisms
traditionally used by submarine cable operators to coordinate with offshore oil and gas
and commercial fishing activities have thus far proven wholly inadequate for addressing
emerging issues with offshore renewable energy development and increasingly fail to
address continuing issues with oil and gas development, dredging, and beach
replenishment. To enhance and supplement existing industry efforts, WG8 recommends
that the FCC endorse the following recommendations:
 Early Consultation: The FCC and submarine cable operators should work with
other U.S. Government agencies and other stakeholders to consult with and
among each other at the earliest possible time to address spatial requirements for
submarine cables and their relationship to other proposed marine activities and
infrastructure.
 Multiple Measures: The FCC and submarine cable operators should promote
development and implementation of multiple measures—some existing, some yet
to be developed—by government agencies and industry. Submarine cable
protection is a complex undertaking that requires more than just a default
separation distance from other marine activities, helpful though such a default
separation distance can be.
 Categorical Exclusion Zones Around Existing Submarine Cables: The FCC
should endorse and explore with other federal, state, and local government
agencies the creation of exclusion zones around existing submarine cables that
would exclude on a categorical basis activities within a defined distance of a
submarine cable absent agreement with the submarine cable owner. These zones
should reflect well-established spatial requirements for cable installation and
maintenance. Technological developments by other marine activities are
irrelevant to these minimum spatial requirements, and no amount of consultation
will change these minima. Where submarine cables traverse lease blocks for
potential energy leases and rights of way for energy infrastructure, energy
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
agencies should either (a) require lessees to maintain specified separation
distances between offshore energy facilities and submarine cables or (b) decline
to authorize development and installation offshore energy facilities within
specified areas of lease blocks containing submarine cables.
 Default Separation Distances: In the absence of a specific methodology or
separation distances for specific offshore activities in relation to submarine
cables, and in the absence of agreement among agencies and stakeholders for
particular activities or particular projects, the FCC should—consistent with ICPC
and other industry recommendations and the best practices of other
governments—endorse a default separation distance of 500 meters in water depths
of less than 75 meters and the greater of 500 meters or two times the depth of
water in greater depths of water. The FCC should also urge other federal, state,
and local government agencies to recognize such default separation distances.
Such a default separation distance would not prohibit closer proximity between a
submarine cable and another offshore activity, but it would require consultation
and agreement.
 Endorsement of Existing International and UK Standards: The FCC should
recognize—and urge other federal, state, and local government agencies to
recognize—ICPC, NASCA, and Subsea Cables UK recommendations as
standards and best practices regarding submarine cable protection.
 Development of New and Updated Standards: The FCC should encourage
NASCA, ICPC, and other industry bodies to update existing recommendations
and develop new ones to address emerging risks, such as specific developments
with renewable energy facilities and activities.
 Greater Public Dissemination of Standards: The FCC should encourage ICPC
to undertake measures to enhance the public availability and dissemination of its
recommendations and model crossing agreement. Historically, many of these
documents have been available only on request, a practice that can limit
awareness of these critical cable-protection tools.
 Recharacterization of ICPC “Recommendations”: The FCC should encourage
ICPC to consider re-labelling its recommendations as standards, given that other
marine activities and regulators often claim that “recommendations” are not
authoritative.
 ICPC Membership: The FCC should explore whether it or another U.S.
Government agency should join ICPC as a member, as ICPC’s 2013 change in
membership rules means that ICPC now welcomes government participation.
Such membership and participation would provide the FCC with more up-to-date
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
information about submarine cable operations and deployments and provide a
useful forum for engaging on cable-protection and marine-spatial-planning issues.
 Standardize Treatment of Route Position List (“RPL”) Data Across
Agencies: The FCC should work with submarine cable operators and other U.S.
Government agencies to develop a standardized approach to RPL data
dissemination—and favor dissemination of such data—in order to promote
awareness of installed submarine cables and the spatial requirements for existing
and future cables. At present, submarine cable operators receive conflicting
requests from various U.S. Government agencies. Some agencies seek to limit
distribution of RPL data for security reasons, out of a fear that RPL data will
provide terrorists with sensitive information about the location of critical
infrastructure. Other agencies seek to disclose RPL data in full during a
permitting process. Consequently, submarine cable operators often hesitate to
share such data out of a concern that one or more U.S. Government agencies will
oppose such sharing.
 Mesh Networking: The FCC and submarine cable operators should promote the
use of mesh networking as a critical supplement to traditional cable-protection
activities, recognizing that such methods may not be possible for all but the
largest carriers.
 Greater Statutory Penalties for Cable Damage: The FCC should highlight for
other U.S. Government agencies and the U.S. Congress the need for legislation
substantially increasing the civil and criminal penalties for damage to submarine
cable infrastructure. The current penalty levels are far too low to deter activities
that might damage installed submarine cables and do not even cover the cost of
repair. These penalties do not reflect global best practices.
 FCC Rule Modification: The FCC should revoke or revise the standard
licensing condition in 47 C.F.R. § 1.767(g)(2), providing that a cable must be
moved upon request of the Secretary of the Army—a condition that could be
invoked for a dredging or beach replenishment project. This condition is
inconsistent with the status of submarine cables as critical infrastructure and
unworkable as a practical matter.
BACKGROUND ON CSRIC IV AND WORKING GROUP 8
Objectives and Methods
The FCC has tasked WG8 with examining the risks posed to submarine cable
infrastructure and how proximity to other marine activities, governmental permitting
processes, and clustering of cable routes and landings can increase the risk of cable
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
damage and harm U.S. network resilience. WG8 will recommend separation standards
and alternative architectures, government policies, and interagency coordination
mechanisms to promote a more resilient submarine cable infrastructure.
WG8 will produce three separate reports:
 Report 1 recommends approaches for spatial separation of submarine cables and
other offshore activities/infrastructure to ensure infrastructure protection and
continuity of communications.
 Report 2 will examine gaps, conflicts, and sources of delay in existing federal,
state, and local interagency coordination for offshore permitting and recommend
mechanism for enhancing coordination without increasing regulatory burdens.
 Report 3 will address industry best practices and government policies for
promoting geographic diversity of submarine cable routes and landings.
For this Report 1, WG8 focused on identifying risks to submarine cable infrastructure—
both natural and man-made—and possible protection measures used to mitigate such
risks. As the subject matter of this Report 1 is likely unfamiliar to non-specialists, WG8
also developed a summary of submarine cable technology, operations and spatial needs,
and the legal regime for regulating and protecting submarine cables.
Membership
WG8 consists of approximately 25 members. They represent diverse interests including
submarine cable operators, cable system customers, marine services consultants, federal
energy agencies, and state regulators, all with subject matter expertise to accomplish
WG8’s objectives.
WG8 CHAIR: Kent Bressie, Harris, Wiltshire & Grannis LLP on behalf of the
North American Submarine Cable Association
FCC LIAISON: Michael Connelly, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
WG8 MEMBERS AND PARTICIPANTS
NAME ORGANIZATION
Steve Balk Sprint
Stephen Bowler* Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Carl Brownawell Sprint
Catherine Creese U.S. Navy
Seth Davis SRD Consulting
Jennifer Golladay Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department
of the Interior
Kurt Johnson Pacific Crossing
Nick Lordi Applied Communication Sciences
John Madden State of Alaska
John Mariano The David Ross Group
Ann Miles* Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Mike O’Hare State of Alaska
Wayne Pacine Federal Reserve Board of Governors
Brian Peretti U.S. Department of the Treasury
Neil Rondorf Leidos (also Chairman, International Cable Protection
Committee)
Frank Salley Verizon
Joseph Schatz U.S. Department of the Treasury
Nikki Shone Southern Cross Cables
Matthew Solomon U.S. Department of the Treasury
Rick Spencer CenturyLink
Takahiro Sumimoto Pacific Crossing
Alland Sy Goldman Sachs
Gerald Tourgee North American Submarine Cable Association
Robert Wargo AT&T (also President, North American Submarine
Cable Association)
Joel Whitman Whitman Consulting Group
* As an independent regulatory agency, FERC and its personnel are not formal
members of WG8 and participate only in an informal, advisory capacity.
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
BACKGROUND ON SUBMARINE CABLES AND THE FCC’S
ROLE IN REGULATING THEM
Submarine Cables Are Critically Important to U.S. National Security and the
U.S. Economy
Contrary to popular perception, more than 95 percent of all U.S. international voice, data,
and Internet traffic travels by submarine cable1—a percentage that continues to increase
over time.2 Submarine cables provide higher-quality, more reliable, more secure, and less
expensive communications than do satellites.3 Submarine cables provide the domestic
principal connectivity between the contiguous United States and Alaska, Hawaii,
American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Marianas, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin
Islands, and provide substantial intrastate or intra-territorial connectivity in Alaska,
Hawaii, the Northern Marianas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Submarine cables play a critical role both in ensuring that the United States can
communicate domestically and with the rest of the world, and in supporting the critical
economic and national security endeavors of the United States and its citizens.
Submarine cables support U.S.-based commerce abroad and provide access to Internet-
based content, a substantial proportion of which is located in the United States. They
also carry the vast majority of civilian and military U.S. Government traffic, as the U.S.
Government does not own and operate its own submarine cables.
The territorial-sea and outer continental shelf (“OCS”) areas of the United States and its
territories contain significant existing and planned submarine cable infrastructure, and
more is planned. As described in Appendix A and identified in the map in Appendix B to
this Report, at least 55 in-service submarine cable systems traverse these areas, and at
least 11 more have been announced or are currently under construction. Some of these
systems have multiple cable segments, for example, the Apollo and TGN Atlantic
systems each have two roughly parallel cables traversing the Atlantic.
Submarine cables—which typically have the diameter of a garden hose—are installed
and repaired by cable ships built specifically for cable-related operations and designed for
1 The terms “submarine cables” and “undersea cables” are used interchangeably here to refer to
telecommunications cables deployed in the marine environment. They are distinguished from “power
cables” and “power transmission cables.”
2 See Submarine Cables and the Oceans: Connecting the World, United Nations Environment
Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC) Biodiversity Series No. 31
(UNEP-WCMC and ICPC, 2009) at 8, www.iscpc.org/publications/ (noting that more than 95 percent
of the world’s telecommunications and Internet traffic is routed via submarine cable) (“UNEP-
WCMC-ICPC Report”).
3 Id. at 15-16.
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
covering vast distances and multi-month deployments. Cable ships are crewed by highly
trained and experienced merchant mariners, marine engineers, and cable operations staff.
These ships use a variety of sea plows, lines, and grapnels, and depending on sea
conditions, remotely operated vehicles (“ROVs”), for manipulating cable and repeaters
whether in the water column or laying on or buried in the seabed.
The normal planned commercial lifespan of submarine cable systems is 25 years.4
Nevertheless, the commercial lifespan of submarine cable systems may extend well
beyond 25 years, particular where the systems have been upgraded or redeployed.
Consistent with these characteristics, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”)
grants cable landing licenses for a term of 25 years (subject to renewal) from
commencement of commercial service.5
Cable maintenance providers contract with individual owners of submarine cable systems
and/or with regional maintenance authorities (consisting of cable operator consortia in
particular geographic areas that contract jointly for maintenance services) for the
provision of long-term maintenance services. They also occasionally contract with
system owners for one-off maintenance operations. Cable and repeaters used for repairs
(commonly referred to as “spares”) are typically manufactured on a system-specific basis
and kept on hand for immediate use by the maintenance provider.
Although damage to submarine cables is rare, it is most often caused by human activities
such as commercial fishing (in which trawl nets, clam dredges, and other bottom-contact
gear ensnare cables), vessel anchors, dredging related to sand and mineral extraction,
petroleum extraction, pipeline construction and maintenance, and other cable activity.6
Seabed uses change over time, and newer activities, such as renewable energy projects,
located near submarine cables raise the potential for damage to submarine cables and
pose particular challenges for both the submarine cable and energy industries. Submarine
cables are also at risk from natural hazards such as hurricanes, underwater landslides, and
seismic events such as earthquakes and tsunamis resulting therefrom.7 These risks can be
magnified by clustering of cables in the same sea floor areas. This Report explores these
risks in greater detail in Section 5 below.
4 UNEP-WCMC-ICPC Report at 33.
5 47 C.F.R. § 1.767(g)(14).
6 See UNEP-WCMC-ICPC Report at 43-48; International Cable Protection Committee, Fishing and
Submarine Cables: Working Together (2d ed. 2009), http://cil.nus.edu.sg/wp/wp-
content/uploads/2009/10/ICPC-Fishing-Booklet-090223.pdf; International Cable Protection
Committee, Loss Prevention Bulletin: Damage to Submarine Cables Caused by Anchors (Mar. 18,
2009), https://iscpc.org/publications/; International Cable Protection Committee, About Submarine
Telecommunications Cables (presentation), Oct. 2011, www.iscpc.org/publications/ (“About
Submarine Telecommunications Cables”).
7 See About Submarine Telecommunications Cables at 37.
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Damage to submarine cables can pose grave risks to U.S. national security and the U.S.
economy, given the U.S. Government’s reliance on such cables to communicate with its
civilian and military personnel worldwide and with other governments, and given the
dollar-value of commerce conducted using submarine cables.8 Timely repairs are
therefore critical, and maintenance providers and cable ships must be prepared to respond
rapidly, with vessels on stand-by with continuously-qualified personnel and appropriate
equipment. Recent damage to submarine cables in Alaska in 2013 and 2014, east Africa
in 2012, in the Pacific following the Tohoku earthquake in 2011, and in East Asia, South
Asia, and West Africa in July and August of 2009, underscores the importance of such
maintenance operations.9 In many of these cases, cable damage resulted in significant
disruptions of communications and slower Internet speeds.
Scope and Elements of Submarine Cables
Submarine cables are large infrastructure projects that can vary in cost from tens of
millions to billions of dollars depending on the length and complexity of the system.
First developed in the 1850s as submarine telegraph cables, they currently use the most
advanced fiber-optic technologies to provide breathtaking amounts of capacity over a
facility the diameter of a garden hose.
As shown in Figure 3A, a submarine cable system has three main components:
(1) the “wet” or marine segment, i.e., subsea cable, repeaters, and branching units
resting on or buried in the seabed;
(2) shore-end facilities connecting the wet segment to the cable landing station,
including the beach manhole (where the cable emerges from the sea) and duct and
conduits connecting the beach manhole to the cable station; and
(3) terminal equipment historically housed in a single structure known as the cable
landing station, including power feed equipment that powers the system in
8 See, e.g., Economic Impact of Submarine Cable Disruptions, APEC Policy Support Unit (Feb. 2013),
www.apec.org/Projects/~/media/Files/Projects/TendersRFPs/2012/20120203_SubmarineCableDisrupti
onsRFP_FINAL.ashx.
9 See Pat Forgey, 5.9 earthquake causes telecom outage in Southeast Alaska, ALASKA DISPATCH NEWS
(July 25, 2014), www.adn.com/article/20140725/59-earthquake-causes-telecom-outage-southeast-
alaska; David Smith, East Africa internet access slows to a crawl after anchor snags cable, THE
GUARDIAN (UK) (Feb. 28, 2012), http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/
feb/28/east-africa-internet-access-anchor; Solomon Moore, Ship Accidents Sever Data Cables Off East
Africa, WALL ST. J. ONLINE (Feb. 28, 2012), http://online.wsj.com/article/
SB10001424052970203833004577249434081658686.html; Owen Fletcher & Juro Osawa, Rush to Fix
Quake-Damaged Undersea Cables, WALL ST. J. ONLINE (Mar. 15, 2011),
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704893604576199952421569210.html; Sean
Buckley, Southeast Asia undersea cable suffers major damage, FIERCETELECOM.COM (Aug. 13, 2009),
http://www.fiercetelecom.com/story/southeast-asian-undersea-cable-suffers-major-damage/2009-08-
13.
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
addition to the transmission electronics known as submarine line terminating
equipment (“SLTE”), the line monitoring system (“LMS”) that monitors the
performance of submarine plant, and the network management system (“NMS”)
that controls the system.
Traditionally, a submarine cable operator or its customers contracted with backhaul
providers—owners of terrestrial facilities connecting a cable landing station to
metropolitan and intercity networks—but these backhaul facilities have never been
considered part of the submarine cable system (and are not licensed by the FCC under the
Cable Landing License Act). To reduce latency (the milliseconds of delay between
transmission and receipt of a fiber-optic signal) and improve performance for customers,
submarine cable operators increasingly locate the SLTE in points of presence (“POPs,”
i.e., points where different networks connect with each other) or data centers closer to or
in metropolitan areas, rather than in cable stations.
Figure 3A: Diagram of a Submarine Cable System10
The process by which a submarine cable system is designed, manufactured, and installed
can last between 18 and 30 months and consists of the following phases:
 System design and route planning
 Permitting and licensing
 Marine and coastal surveys for route and landing point assessment
 Manufacturing of the system (cable, repeaters, etc.)
 Marine and shore installations
 Testing
10 Source: International Telecommunication Union, Liberalizing International Gateways,
http://www.itu.int/itunews/manager/display.asp?lang=en&year=2009&issue=01&ipage=26&ext=html.
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
The development and procurement process starts even earlier, with the development of
the business case for a new system and development and execution of the procurement
process for soliciting bids among competing suppliers, of which there are comparatively
few.
Complex Federal Regulation
Submarine cables landing in the United States are subject to complex regulation at the
federal, state, and local levels. Submarine cable installation activities are often regulated
though the same processes as other offshore infrastructure that pose greater
environmental issues.
Although numerous federal, state, and local government agencies issue licenses,
easements, and permits governing installation and construction activities associated with
submarine cables landing in the United States (as discussed further in Section 6 of this
Report 1), in practice the FCC functions as the primary regulator and is responsible for
licensing all international submarine cables landing in the United States. The FCC is
therefore in the best position to advocate for cable-protection initiatives and coordination
among various governmental agencies.
To land or operate a submarine cable in the United States, an operator must obtain a cable
landing license from the FCC pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act of 1921.11 As
part of the application process, an operator must provide a general route map and specific
geographic landing-point information to the FCC.12 Before granting any cable landing
license, the FCC must seek to obtain the approval of the U.S. Department of State (acting
through its Office of International Communications and Information Policy), which
coordinates with the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and
Information Administration and the U.S. Department of Defense’s Defense Information
Systems Agency.13 The FCC’s rules provide that the location of any cable in the U.S.
territorial sea and on shore must conform to plans approved by the Secretary of the Army
and that a cable must be moved at the licensee’s expense upon a request of the Secretary
11 An Act Relating to the Landing and Operation of Submarine Cables in the United States, codified at 47
U.S.C. §§ 34-39; Executive Order 10,530, reprinted in 3 U.S.C. § 301 (delegating President’s authority
under Cable Landing License Act to the FCC); 47 C.F.R. § 1.767. A cable system (including all cable
stations for the system) lying wholly within the continental United States is exempt from this licensing
requirement. 47 U.S.C. § 34.
12 47 C.F.R. § 1.767(a).
13 Id. §§ 1.767(b), (j).
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
of the Army for reasons of public interest, national defense, or harbor improvement.14 To
extend or relocate part of a submarine cable system licensed by the FCC, an operator
must obtain the FCC’s prior consent.15
The FCC plays a coordinating role in various interagency processes, and other
governmental agencies frequently look to the FCC for guidance on matters pertaining to
submarine cables. No other agency collects as much timely or centralized information
about planned and in-service cables and their locations.
It was for this reason that the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy
(“OSTP”) looked to the FCC to implement a new system of reporting on submarine cable
outages and restoration arrangements in 2008.16 Reinforcing the FCC’s central role, the
U.S. Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, and Justice (collectively known as
“Team Telecom” in this context) seek to enforce security-related requirements on
foreign-owned and international submarine cables by petitioning the FCC to add
conditions to cable landing licenses and FCC orders granting consent for assignments and
transfers of control of cable landing licenses.
The installation of a submarine cable system involves a multitude of other federal, state,
and local permits, most of which are not coordinated at all with the FCC—or with each
other. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (“Army Corps”) grants permits for submarine
cables as structures located in the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to the
Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 and also under the Clean Water Act, to the extent the
cables traverse coastal wetlands or involve certain discharges. The Army Corps typically
completes an environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act before
issuing the permit and will consult with other agencies on fisheries and endangered
species issues, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine
Fisheries Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”).
If a cable system will traverse a national marine sanctuary, the cable owner must also
obtain a permit from NOAA’s National Ocean Service under the National Marine
Sanctuaries Act.
State/territorial and local regulation of a particular submarine cable system depends on
the locations of its U.S. landings. State regulation tends to focus on environmental
regulation in the state territorial sea (which extends three nautical miles seaward from the
14 Id. § 1.767(g)(2).
15 Id. § 1.767(e).
16 Federal Communications Commission, Notice of Public Information Collection(s) Being Submitted for
Review by the Office of Management and Budget, 73 Fed. Reg. 23,460 (April 22, 2008).
22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
shore) and on coastal land and beaches. There is significant variation in the regulatory
processes and requirements, ranging from the lengthy processes of California’s Coastal
Commission and State Lands Commission to more streamlined requirements elsewhere.
Local governments generally conduct environmental and land use reviews in connection
with easements and rights of way between the beach manhole and other near-shore
facilities, although certain localities have more substantial jurisdiction over adjacent
marine areas (e.g., the City of Hermosa Beach, California).
Federal permits are subject to state review for their consistency with state coastal zone
management plans approved by the Secretary of Commerce under the Coastal Zone
Management Act (“CZMA”). Under the CZMA, states generally have the right to review
federal activities affecting coastal areas within the state’s jurisdiction.
Spatial Requirements for Submarine Cable Installation and
Maintenance
Submarine cable operators require ready and unfettered access to their cables for
installation and maintenance needs and to minimize outage time in connection with a
repair. To achieve this and to minimize conflicts with other marine activities, submarine
cable operators use a variety of coordination and cooperation mechanisms. These include
extensive coastal and marine spatial planning, cable spacing and crossing standards, cable
awareness programs and outreach, and coordination with other users of marine and
coastal areas, particularly commercial fishermen.
Cable Characteristics
Any cable protection regime must account for the physical characteristics of submarine
cables and the mechanical characteristics of the installation and repair vessels and tools.
These characteristics—along with weather, sea, and seabed conditions—greatly
determine the specifics of a given cable installation or repair and its impact, if any, on the
marine and coastal environment. Since most submarine cables installed in near-shore
areas use armored fiber-optic cable, this discussion will focus on that type of cable.
23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Figure 4A: Examples of Unarmored and Armored Fiber-Optic Cable17
Cable armoring helps to protect a submarine fiber-optic cable from fault-triggering events
in the marine and coastal environment. A “fault” is an event associated with an installed
submarine cable requiring some maintenance or repair activity to ensure continued useful
service of the cable. Faults may be caused by external or natural aggression. “External
aggression”—fault-triggering events caused by third parties and their equipment—
accounted for more than 80 percent of submarine cable system faults. Among these
external aggression events, commercial fishing remains the major cause, second only to
ship anchoring. “Natural aggression”—fault-triggering events caused by wear and tear
resulting from abrasion and geological activity, and by component failure—account for
the remainder of the faults.
Armored cable is distinguished by high tensile strength, abrasion and crush resistance,
and inherent torque. The tensile strength and crush and abrasion resistance serve to
protect the cable not only in the marine and coastal environment but also from the
installation and maintenance operations themselves (namely, from being passed through
the sea plow). Cable manufacturers purposely build torque into the cable to permit
coiling in cylindrical storage tanks in warehouses and ships prior to deployment. Storing
cables in coils is efficient both in terms of storage space and ease of manipulation,
whether adding to or removing from a storage tank. Torque, however, also causes the
cable to loop back on itself when slack. Loops can result in transmission failures if
pulled tight, they can stand upright on the seabed, and they are more susceptible to
physical damage due to greater exposure above the seabed. To avoid having the cable
throw loops when it is uncoiled, it is laid on the sea floor under tension.
17 Source: Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications, LLC.
24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Marine Route Study and Survey
To identify the safest and most economic route for a new submarine cable, the owner will
commission a desktop study and a marine survey. These two undertakings will attempt
to identify all of the risks discussed in Section 5 below and define the safest cable route.
Through the study, the owner and its supplier can often minimize or eliminate hazards
and conflicts. With greater development of the sea floor in the U.S. territorial sea, EEZ,
and OCS, however, the availability of suitable unused routes has been exhausted, forcing
submarine cable operators to accept at least some risk.
To ensure effective identification of existing and future hazards, these processes typically
include consultation with commercial fishermen and their unions, local, state, and federal
agencies, and other marine industries.
Submarine cable operators evaluate potential routes and landing sites to account for a
number of physical factors that could determine costs and risks, including:
a) the tectonic setting and associated sea floor morphology and
lithology,
b) geological history,
c) seismicity,
d) surface faulting,
e) turbidity currents,
f) sediment waves,
g) sand waves,
h) coral reefs (tropical and cold water),
i) volcanic activity,
j) beach and near shore seabed stability: this includes determining
the nature and composition of beach and near shore soils as well
as examining indicators of shoreline instability such as the
presence of offshore bars, washouts, beach erosion and slumping,
k) offshore geology and burial assessment: this includes sections
along the proposed routing where cable burial will probably be
required (i.e. high levels of activity / external aggression) and
where soils are likely to prove good/difficult for cable burial,
l) Other geohazards, not covered in above sections 18
They also examine other technical and man-made factors, such as previous fault history
for cables in the area, commercial fishing trends, sediment borrow practices, military
exercise patterns, sensitive environmental areas, and other seabed structures. Submarine
cable operators then use the results of the route survey to modify the initial route
identified in the desktop study.
18 ICPC Recommendation No. 9 “Minimum Technical Requirements for a Desktop Study” Issue 4, 6
March 2012, page 5
25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Cable Operations
Cable ships are large vessels (often more than 125 meters in length) that require space in
which to maneuver when installing or repairing submarine cables, and to accommodate
the effect of bad weather on the ocean. Offshore developments involving large
structures, like oil platforms, turbine towers, and submerged structures, present obstacles
precluding cable ships from having ready access to the sea floor for new installations
(and for repair of previously-installed cables). Heavy vessel traffic, fishing or military
operations and seasonal restrictions can also impede or delay installation.
Figure 4B: A typical cable ship, the C.S. Dependable19
Offshore developments that cover large areas of sea floor have the effect of forcing new
submarine cable projects into “gaps” on the sea floor between offshore developments.
This, in turn, limits the access that cable vessels and the equipment necessary for cable
installation (sea plows) and repair (grapnels and ROVs) have to the sea floor and the
cable laid there. The result is to make the already complex tasks of cable installation and
maintenance exponentially more complex, meaning that cable faults will be repaired less
quickly and communications system outages will last longer, and that the costs to
operators and the customers they serve could increase considerably.
Cable installation operations are conducted 24 hours per day. The cable end is floated
ashore from the primary cable ship or from a smaller secondary one. If a secondary ship
is used to pre-install the shore end, then the cable ship will splice to the shore end and
continue the lay. In near-shore areas, cable is generally buried to protect it from the
19 Source: Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications, LLC.
26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
hazards described above. In limited areas where there are no significant fishing or
anchoring risks or where the seabed does not permit burial, it will be laid on the surface
of the sea floor. During installation, it is critical that the cable lay flat. Loops are
undesirable for a variety of reasons, as noted above. Cable installers use various slack
management techniques and software to minimize these outcomes.
To recover a cable from the sea floor for repair purposes, a ship can either grapple for the
cable (dragging a grapnel on a line from the ship) or deploy an ROV depending on sea
conditions. ROV use is limited to shallower depths between 50 and 2000 meters with
moderate currents and good visibility. ROV use is also limited to cable laid on the
surface of the sea floor. Therefore most cable retrieval is done with grapnels. To retrieve
a surface-laid cable in deeper water, a cable ship uses grapnels. And to retrieve a buried
cable at any depth, a cable ship uses a de-trenching grapnel, the size and weight of which
increases with the depth of water.
The grapnel (whether for surface-laid or buried cable) is lowered to the sea floor from
lines on the cable ship and dragged in a direction perpendicular to the cable. This allows
the grapnel to dig into the seabed and under the cable, maximizing the chance that the
grapnel will hook the cable (rather than graze or accidentally release it) and bring it to the
surface of the seabed. Current ship positioning technology allows for extremely accurate
placement of this gear and for controlled cable retrieval. Nevertheless, bad weather,
heavy seas, or strong currents can decrease the accuracy of these operations—a situation
which poses a greater risk to other submarine cables or sea floor installations in the
vicinity of the target cable.
Figure 4C: Typical 1-Meter Grapnel for Recovery of Buried Cable20
20 Source: Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications, LLC.
27The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Figure 4D: Grappling Operation Overview21
A damaged submarine cable must be repaired onboard a cable ship. But a cable (whether
tensioned or not) that is resting on, or buried in, the seabed will lack sufficient slack to
reach the surface for repair. Unless a cable is already severed, therefore, it must first be
cut in order to be brought to the surface. This retrieval operation takes at least three
21 Source: Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications, LLC.
28The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
passes with the grapnel—one to cut the cable, a second to bring up and buoy one end of
the cable, and a third to bring up and bring onboard the second end. After the ends are
repaired and tested, a section of cable must be spliced in between the two ends in order to
have them meet at the surface and restore connectivity. This additional section is
typically two and a half times the depth of water in length. This length permits what was
previously a cable lying flat on the sea floor to reach up to the cable ship, provide length
for manipulation and repair activities on board, and reach back down to the sea floor.
Figure 4E: Ship Operations During a Cable Repair22
22 Source: Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications, LLC.
29The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
This final configuration (known as the final bight) must be carefully placed back on the
seabed. The ship uses additional rope to pull the bight in a direction perpendicular to the
line of the original cable and then lower it to the seabed. Only with this careful
placement can the repair ship have any chance of laying the cable flat.
Figure 4F: Diagrams Showing Installation of
Final Bight and Location on Sea Floor23
Risks of Damage to Submarine Cables
Submarine cables are subject to diverse natural and man-made risks of damage that vary
depending on the state of implementation or operation of the system. These risks vary by
physical conditions of the sea floor and ocean and by political and economic
characteristics of adjacent coastal states and their marine activities and industries. Some
of these risks are well-established while others are emerging. Some traditional risks have
been contained or even minimized, while others continue to threaten submarine cables
with some regularity.
In general, the more intensive use of U.S. coastal and marine areas for resource and
infrastructure development activities creates a scarcity of unused and underused areas
that might otherwise minimize risks to submarine cables simply due to wide spatial
separations. First, these activities pose direct risks to submarine cables by threatening
installed cables with equipment, anchors, infrastructure installation and operation, and
resource exploration, exploitation, and transport. Second, these activities impair access
to installed submarine cable systems, increasing repair costs and the length of
communications outages. Third, these activities can distort routing and landing
decisions, making it risky to use particular routes to reach well-established cable landing
stations and terrestrial network POPs or, conversely, encouraging clustering of cables in
23 Source: ICPC Recommendation 13, No. 2, at 27.
30The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
narrow corridors and landings, which magnify the risks of damage and communications
outages across multiple systems due to particular natural or man-made events.
Traditional Risks
Historically, commercial fishing has accounted for more than 40 percent of all submarine
cable faults worldwide, as indicated by the fault data shown in Figure 5A below. This
data reflects the fact that for most of the past 160 years, submarine cable operators and
commercial fishing were the two principal marine industries making use of the seabed.
Commercial fishing-related damage is most often caused by bottom-tending fishing gear
such as trawl nets and dredges, but it is also cause by long lines anchored to the seabed
and pot and trap fisheries using grapnels for gear retrieval.
Figure 5A: Proportion of Cable Faults by Cause
from a Database of 2,162 Records Spanning 1959 to 200624
The submarine cable industry has implemented a number of mitigation strategies to limit
cable faults resulting from fishing. These include:
24 Source: UNEP-WCMC-ICPC Report, Figure 7.4 at 45.
31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
1. Cable armoring,
2. Cable burial (from 0.5 meters to 3 meters) for cable installed at water depths less
than 1500 meters,
3. Cable awareness and liaison programs designed to educate fishing fleets regarding
the location of submarine cables, and actions to take if gear is snagged, and
4. Programs to compensate fishermen for snagged gear (so that they abandon
snagged gear rather than damage cables in trying to free it).
While commercial fishing continues to pose the most significant risk of damage to
submarine cables worldwide, it is relatively rare in the U.S. territorial sea and OCS, as
the mitigation strategies pursued by submarine cable operators have proved very effective
in the United States.
Anchoring accounts for approximately 15 percent of cable faults worldwide.25 Anchoring
threats include: improperly-stowed anchors, which release or fall overboard and can be
dragged for great lengths along the sea floor, damaging cables along the anchor’s path;
anchoring outside of approved anchorages and near installed submarine cables; anchors
dragged by properly-anchored vessels, depending on sea conditions;26 and an anchor
dropped in a marine emergency.27 Submarine cable operators seek to route around
designated anchorages.
The Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S.
Department of the Interior (“BOEM”) frequently authorize sand and gravel dredging in
the U.S. territorial sea and OCS. U.S. beaches are often replenished by the Army Corps
and its contractors or state and local authorities acting under permits issued by the Army
Corps using sand from offshore borrow areas. These practices can be highly
incompatible with submarine cables, which can be damaged by the dredging process
itself and by anchors used by vessels, barges, and pipelines used to recover, transport, and
pump dredged material back onto shore.
Moreover, sand and gravel dredging disturbs sea floor sediments, triggering erosion in
other areas as sand migrates to fill the dredged area. This reduces the burial depth of
submarine cables—exposing them to greater risk of damage by commercial fishing and
25 UNEP-WCMC-ICPC Report at 45.
26 Doug Madory, Beware the Ides of March, Subsea Cable Cut Trend Continues, DYN RESEARCH (Mar.
31, 2014), http://research.dyn.com/2014/03/beware-the-ides-of-march/.
27 See, e.g., Consent Judgment, General Communications, Inc. v. United States, Case No. 10-cv-00856-
RAJ (W.D. Wash., May 20, 2011); Complaint, General Communications, Inc. v. United States, Case
No. 10-cv-00856-RAJ (W.D. Wash., filed May 21, 2010).
32The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
anchoring—and can damage cables through abrasion. While marine sand and gravel are
often obtained from designated and charted borrow areas, sometimes they are not—
particularly in response to storms such as Hurricane Sandy. Without systematic
consultation by the Army Corps of its own permit records for submarine cables and
systematic and direct notification to submarine cable operators regarding planned
dredging operations well in advance of operations, these dredging projects will continue
to pose a significant threat of damage to submarine cables.
Similarly, navigational dredging of harbors and channels such as the Intracoastal
Waterway can pose risks to installed submarine cables, and submarine cable operators
generally seek to avoid these areas if possible. The spoils from these dredging projects
are often deposited in designated areas offshore, known as dredge deposit areas, and are
usually maintained by the Army Corps. The Army Corps will often, but not always,
prohibit installation of submarine cables through dredge deposit areas.
Historically, oil and gas development off the coasts of the United States has focused on
the Gulf of Mexico, where there are relatively few submarine cables. As the demand for
energy increases and as technology evolves, oil and gas infrastructure will likely move
offshore into deeper waters and potentially to new areas along the Atlantic and Pacific
coasts. The prospect of more intensive oil and gas uses of the U.S. OCS therefore
requires significant and improved coordination with submarine cable operators.
Uncoordinated offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation, and transport activities pose
significant risks to submarine cables. Absent sufficient spatial separation and
coordination, oil and gas activities threaten submarine cables with:
 Direct physical disturbance through the use of anchors for production platforms
and semi-submersible drill rigs, support vessels, barges, and tankers; core
sampling; drills, dredges, hydraulic jets, and cutting tools; and ROVs;
 Pipeline proximity to and crossings with cables, which pose direct physical
disturbance risks during installation, operation, and maintenance and add
significant complexity, costs, and time requirements for repair operations for a
submarine cable (as well as the adjacent or crossing pipeline); and
 Impaired access to submarine cables both at the surface (for cable ships) and on
the sea floor (for cables)—given the spatial needs for large-vessel cable ships to
maneuver in variable ocean conditions on the ocean’s surface (which can be
impeded by the presence of platforms, rigs, tankers, and support vessels) and for
sea plows, grapnels, and ROVs on the sea floor during installation and
maintenance (which can be impeded by a variety of oil and gas equipment)—all
of which increases the complexity, costs, and time required to complete
installations and repairs and can increase the costs to customers of network
outages.
33The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
With ICPC Recommendation 3, the submarine cable industry has sought to address the
risks of submarine cable-pipeline crossings. Crossing agreements are often required
where a cable and a pipeline (or another cable) must cross. These agreements specify the
obligations and liabilities of each party during the installation and life cycle of the
crossing. They are often required by the crossed party (whichever utility was there first)
prior to giving permission to be crossed. In this case risk is reduced by agreeing the
technical details of the crossing prior to the commencement of any work. Commercial
liabilities are also agreed in the event of one party damaging the cable or pipeline of the
other. Nevertheless, these mechanisms do not establish principles for minimizing
crossings or limits on the total number of crossings for a particular cable.
Figure 5B: Depiction of Subsea Infrastructure of
Offshore Oil and Gas Platforms and Drill Ships28
Although the submarine cable and offshore oil and gas industries have a long history of
working with each other, the renewed focus on U.S. domestic energy production and
possible opening of the U.S. Atlantic OCS regions to oil and gas development (in the
event the current development moratorium expires in 2017) will increase the risks to
submarine cables. Indeed, 39 of the installed or planned submarine cable systems listed
in Appendix A transit OCS planning areas identified by BOEM in preparation for its next
28 Source: American Petroleum Institute, Oil and Gas Overview, http://www.api.org/oil-and-natural-gas-
overview/exploration-and-production/offshore/~/media/Oil-and-Natural-Gas-images/Offshore-Primer-
images/Thumbnails/Producing-Offshore-2_150x88.jpg.
34The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
five-year plan for oil and gas lease sales in the U.S. OCS, which will take effect in
2017.29
The clustering of submarine cables along particular routes (whether to avoid unfavorable
sea floor topography, natural hazards, or man-made hazards such as dredging and
dumping areas, fishing grounds, and energy infrastructure) increases the risk that
installation or maintenance of one cable will cause direct physical disturbance to another,
such as with plowing and grappling operations. Adherence to ICPC recommendations
can reduce these risks.
Earthquakes and resulting tsunamis in the United States are concentrated in the Pacific
and Caribbean islands, along the West Coast, and in Alaska. Earthquakes can trigger
subsea landslides that sever or abrade cables. They can also trigger tsunamis, the force of
which can damage both submarine cables and cable landing stations.
The geology of a cable landing and the area immediately offshore play a critical role in
determining potential landing sites for submarine cable systems. Submarine cable
operators prefer to land their cables in locations that have stable, benign landing features.
Bottom features such as pinnacles or boulder fields that would leave a cable exposed,
high current areas that could lead to chafing, long tidal flats, evidence of trawling (trawl
scars), etc. require special consideration for both installation and maintenance of
submarine cable systems. Such considerations may include horizontal directional drilling
to bypass the feature of concerns, pinning cable to the bottom to avoid chafe, use of post-
lay jetting machines to bury cable, and use of backhoe and construction equipment at low
tide for burial in extended tidal flats.
The potential weather conditions associated with a region play an important role in the
installation and maintenance of a cable system. For submarine cable systems there are
installation and operational risks related to weather.
Installation of submarine cable systems can be impacted or at risk from severe climate
events. Severe seasonal weather conditions such as hurricanes, gales, and storms, shore
ice, and icebergs can dictate the available “weather window’ for cable installation when
29 See Department of the Interior, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Request for Information and
Comments on the Preparation of the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing
Program, 79 Fed. Reg. 34,349 (June 16, 2014).
35The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
considered in conjunction with the operational capabilities of the cable ship and its ability
to lay and bury the cable.
In the United States, the most common extreme weather event impacting the installation
or maintenance of subsea telecom cable systems is a hurricane or typhoon. The
Atlantic/Caribbean Sea/Gulf of Mexico hurricane season runs from June 1st through
November 30th. The Eastern Pacific hurricane season runs from May 15th through
November 30th.30
In addition to the direct effect weather has on installation or maintenance, secondary
effects, such as flooding after a storm may also affect cable landing stations.
Emerging Risks
Demand for environmentally-friendly and domestic energy sources has created
significant interest in three particular sources of renewable energy: (1) offshore wind; (2)
wave, tidal, and ocean current (referred to generally as marine hydrokinetic (“MHK”)
energy); and (3) ocean thermal energy conversion (“OTEC”). Offshore wind energy is
the most familiar offshore renewable energy source because the technology is the most
mature, but there is continuing interest in in-water testing of MHK and OTEC
technologies with a goal of commercial scale development. Ultimately, offshore
renewable energy is expected to prove a significant source of low-carbon energy for the
United States. Offshore renewable energy development will, however, pose risks to
submarine cables and vice versa. Because offshore renewable energy is an emerging
industry, the risks remain uncertain. Consequently, submarine cable operators, offshore
renewable energy developers, and regulators have yet to develop systematic risk-
minimization strategies and consultation and coordination mechanisms, which has
resulted in some unresolved conflicts.
Offshore Wind
To date, BOEM has issued five offshore commercial wind energy leases, and plans on
issuing up to eight additional commercial wind leases in 2014 and 2015. Most interest
has focused on development on the Atlantic coast, but BOEM is also considering a
proposal for a floating wind facility off the Oregon coast. In order to inform its planning
and leasing efforts, BOEM has established twelve state-level Intergovernmental Task
Forces, which consist of relevant federal agencies and the state, local and tribal entities
that may be affected by or have an interest in offshore wind development.
30 Source: National Hurricane Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
www.nhc.noaa.gov.
36The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Typically, all offshore wind energy turbines are interconnected with subsea power cables,
as shown in Figure 5C, with an export cable that brings the power to shore.
Figure 5C: Offshore Wind Energy Turbine Field Power Cable Interconnections31
The Delaware area has been leased to an offshore wind developer, and the lessee is
currently assessing the site. The areas offshore New Jersey and Maryland are currently in
the leasing stage of BOEM’s process, and the area offshore New York is still in the
planning stage.
Marine and Hydrokinetic Projects
MHK projects use the undulation of waves or the velocity of current from tides, ocean
currents, or instream flow to generate electricity without the use of a dam. Interest in
MHK technology in the United States has been emerging for the past 10 years or so, but
only recently have projects been licensed and deployed. So far, MHK projects (mainly
tidal projects) have been located in the territorial sea and have been for the purpose of
testing the technology, the site, and environmental and other potential effects. The
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has jurisdiction for licensing MHK
projects in the territorial sea.32 On the U.S. OCS, BOEM is responsible for issuing the
lease, easement, or right-of-way for MHK projects, while FERC is responsible for issuing
the license. The agencies have agreed to coordinate their actions to ensure MHK projects
31 Source: John Williamson/Seakeeper.org, http://www.seakeeper.org/wp-content/uploads/
2013/06/Walney-OWF.bmp
32 See Section 23(b)(1) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. § 817(1).
37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
meet the public interest, including the adequate protection, mitigation, and enhancement
of fish, wildlife, and marine resources and other beneficial public uses.33
Given the U.S. wave, tidal, and ocean current energy resource, most of the MHK
proposals are for wave projects off the west coast and off Alaska; for tidal projects in
tidal areas in the east, northwest, and Alaska; and for ocean current projects off Florida.
There are currently four FERC licensed tidal pilot projects, which allow for installation of
one to a few turbines for testing purposes. These are located in Cobscook Bay, Maine;
East River, New York City; and Estero Bay and Point Estero, California. The project
preliminarily licensed in Admiralty Inlet, Washington, was cancelled late in 2014.
Figure 5D: Examples of Tidal Energy Infrastructure
In May 2014, BOEM issued a five-year Interim Policy lease to Florida Atlantic
University that will allow for the testing of non-grid-connected ocean current devices
offshore Florida. BOEM also recently determined that there is no competitive interest in
a proposed wave energy research project offshore Oregon. This MHK project, the
Pacific Marine Energy Center South Energy Test Site Research Project, will be the first
project to undergo the joint BOEM/FERC leasing and licensing process outlined in the
2009 Memorandum of Understanding between the two agencies.
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Projects
OTEC projects use the temperature difference between cooler deep water and warmer
shallow or surface ocean waters to generate electricity. Projects will be located in deep
water allowing for the thermal gradient required for energy conversion. The basic
principle is to pump deep cold water to the surface to cool a refrigerant fluid, such as
ammonia, which is then compressed and vaporized using surface water before entering
the turbine/generator unit. This would require OTEC siting to be in island environments
or areas where there is a relatively narrow continental shelf allowing for deep water near
the coastal region. Currently there are no projects or test projects in the United States
though Lockheed Martin has a contract to develop a 10 MW plant off China. In the
33 Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. Department of the Interior and the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, April 9, 2009, http://www.ferc.gov/legal/mou/mou-doi.pdf.
38The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
United States, the National Ocean Atmospheric Administration is responsible for
authorizing construction and operation of this technology.
Figure 5E: Overview of a Typical OTEC Project
Risks of Renewable-Energy Development to Submarine Cables
Uncoordinated renewable energy development poses numerous risks to submarine cables.
These risks are highly dependent on the site selected and the project design. The sheer
newness of renewable energy projects means that renewable energy developers are not
always sufficiently aware of nearby activities of submarine cable operators, and vice
versa.
Placement of offshore generating facilities and mooring anchors near submarine cables
increases the likelihood of a cable fault due to the risk of sea floor scouring. Sea floor
scouring is the effect of currents eroding sediment in the areas around a structure on the
sea floor. Scouring can lead submarine cables, which are typically laid either directly on
or trenched into the sea floor, to be exposed to current and potential threats. As noted in
Section 4 above, when submarine cables throw loops or are suspended above the sea
floor, they face increased risk of damage because of exposure to anchors, fishing nets,
and other environmental aggressors. All offshore structures affect current conditions near
the sea floor, which increases the likelihood of scouring.34 Thus, sea floor scouring
34 See RAVE-Projekt zur Geologie, Untersuchungskonzept - Erste Ergebnisse, Bundesamt Für
Seeschifffahrt Und Hydrographie Oct. 10, 2010, www.bsh.de/de/Meeresnutzung/Wirtschaft/
Windparks/StUKplus/Praesentationen10Mai2010/Praes_Lambers-Huesmann.pdf (in German); see also
39The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
around submerged support structures, may lead nearby submarine cables to be exposed.
Scouring could also lead submarine cable operators to require that cables be buried more
deeply, making installation and subsequent retrieval for repairs more difficult, time-
consuming, and costly. And submarine cables can be made more vulnerable because of
modifications in sea floor topography—disturbed sediments may redeposit above a cable,
but in a looser state, increasing the risk of erosion and abrasion.35
Renewable energy projects, which entail the placement and maintenance of structures on
the seabed or in the water column, also pose similar risks to submarine cables as do
traditional energy projects, such as oil and gas development, absent sufficient spatial
separation.
Large offshore renewable-energy projects—if sited in shallow water relatively close to
shore, with both power-generation facilities and power transmission cables connecting
back to shore—can impede sea floor access for installation and maintenance of
submarine cable, force them into de facto cable “corridors,” or force them to assume risks
for transiting heavily fished areas, anchorages, dumping grounds, or dredged areas where
the risk of damage might still be lower than for transiting a wind farm array, for example.
As noted above, cable concentration magnifies other risks, such as from anchors and
fishing nets, which can damage multiple cables in a single incident. Unsurprisingly, a
U.S. National Research Council report evaluating marine hydrokinetic energy resources
identifies submarine cable areas as a constraint on development of marine energy (such
as tidal and wave technologies) describing cable areas as “restricted” for purposes of
energy development.36
Power transmission cables pose physical risks and personnel safety risks during
submarine cable installation and maintenance operations With respect to wind farms,
these often consist of multiple cables (typically three to six for larger operations) running
in parallel with 50 to 100 meter separation to meet capacity requirements. Where
crossings are unavoidable, crossing agreements are critical for identifying and managing
risks.
Tom McNeilan & Kevin Smith (Fugro), Larry Atkinson & Jose Blanco (Old Dominion University),
TA&R Study 656, Presentation to Atlantic Wind Energy Workshop (July 12, 2011),
http://www.boem.gov/Renewable-Energy-Program/AWEW_Program_Agenda-pdf.aspx.
35 See id.
36 An Evaluation of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Marine and Hydrokinetic Resource Assessments,
National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences, at 87 (May 2013), http://www.nap.edu/
catalog/18278/an-evaluation-of-the-us-department-of-energys-marine-and-hydrokinetic-resource-
assessments .
40The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Submarine cable planning, installation, and maintenance may become more difficult
without specific infrastructure separation guidelines and clear definition of rights and
privileges of infrastructure owners.
Deep-Sea Mining
Deep-sea mining seeks to harvest polymetallic nodules, cobalt-rich manganese crusts,
and sea floor massive sulfides.37 At present, deep-sea mining present a low risk to
installed cables, as the mining of particular marine minerals has not yet proved economic.
Nevertheless, it is very likely that improved (and cheaper technologies) and increasing
demand for particular minerals (and/or a more stable supply thereof) will pose greater
threats to installed submarine cables and limit routes for future cables. Mining
operations—both exploratory and exploitative—cause direct physical disturbance of the
seabed, threatening operation of undersea cables by anchoring of production support
vessels, barges, and mining platforms; the use of ROVs; core sampling; drills, dredges,
hydraulic jets, and cutting tools; and continuous-line bucket systems or hydraulic systems
used to transport minerals from the seabed to the surface.38 Likewise, minerals mining
operations present a threat of erosion and abrasion similar to that presented by wind farm
operations; destabilization of the sea floor; and redeposited sediments. All of these may
result in exposing or suspending cables above the sea floor, thereby subjecting them to a
heightened risk of damage from vessel traffic and fishing nets and anchors, as well as the
risk of debris accumulating on cables. Finally, large offshore developments impede
access to undersea telecommunications cable systems both at the surface (for cable
vessels) and on the sea floor.
To address these concerns in deep-sea areas beyond national jurisdiction, ICPC has
concluded a memorandum of understanding with the International Seabed Authority—
which regulates deep-sea mining in regions beyond national jurisdiction known as “the
Area” pursuant to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which the
United States has signed but not ratified—providing for data exchanges to assist
submarine cable owners to avoid deep-sea mining areas, and vice versa.39 Within
territorial-sea, EEZ, and continental shelf areas, where coastal states have jurisdiction,
submarine cable operators must coordinate with national regulators of those coastal
37 See G.P. Glasby, Lessons Learned from Deep-Sea Mining, SCIENCE, July 28, 2000, at 551.
38 See, e.g., Kristi Birney, et al., Potential Deep-Sea Mining of Seafloor Massive Sulfides: A Case Study
in Papua New Guinea at 23-28 (2006), www.bren.ucsb.edu/research/documents/ventsthesis.pdf;
Nautilus Minerals Inc. – Resource Extraction, http://www.nautilusminerals.com/s/
resourceextraction.asp#SPT; Nautilus Minerals Inc. – Solwara 1 Project – High Grade Copper and
Gold, www.nautilusminerals.com/s/Projects-Solwara.asp.
39 Memorandum of Understanding between the International Cable Protection Committee and the
International Seabed Authority, dated 25 February 2010, http://www.isa.org.jm/
files/documents/EN/Regs/MOU-ICPC.pdf.
41The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
states. In the case of the United States, BOEM has jurisdiction over such matters beyond
the state territorial seas (which extend three nautical miles seaward from the shore).
International and U.S. Legal Regimes
Submarine Cables Enjoy Unique Treaty Rights and Protections Granted to No
Other Activity in the Marine Environment
U.S. treaty obligations and customary international law (as observed by the United
States) recognize unique freedoms for the installation and maintenance of submarine
cables. These rights and freedoms are not accorded to energy-related activities,
commercial fishing, or marine transport, and sometimes these rights and freedoms take
legal precedence over those of other marine activities.
Various international treaties dating back to 1884 guarantee unique freedoms to lay,
maintain, and repair submarine cables—freedoms not granted for any other marine
activities—and restrict the ability of coastal states (i.e., countries) to regulate them.40
Principles articulated in these treaties have since been recognized as customary
international law.
Specifically, these treaties guarantee:
 The freedom to install submarine cables on the high seas beyond the continental
shelf and to repair existing cables without impediment or prejudice;41
40 See Convention for the Protection of Submarine Telegraph Cables, Mar. 14, 1884, 24 Stat. 989, 25
Stat. 1424, T.S. 380, (entered into force definitively for the United States on May 1, 1888) (“1884
Convention”); Geneva Convention on the High Seas, Apr. 29, 1958, 13 U.S.T. 2312, T.I.A.S. 5200,
450 U.N.T.S. 82 (entered into force definitively for the United States on Sept. 30, 1962) (“High Seas
Convention”); Geneva Convention on the Continental Shelf, Apr. 29, 1958, 15 U.S.T. 471, T.I.A.S.
5578, 499 U.N.T.S. 311 (entered into force definitively for the United States on June 10, 1964)
(“Continental Shelf Convention”); Law of the Sea Convention, Dec. 10, 1982, 1833 U.N.T.S. 397
(entered into force on Nov. 16, 1994) (“UNCLOS”).
41 High Seas Convention, arts. 2 (“Freedom of the high seas is exercised under the conditions laid down
by these articles and by the other rules of international law. It comprises, inter alia, both for coastal
and non-coastal States: . . . Freedom to lay submarine cables and pipelines.” (italics in original)), 26(1)
(“All States shall be entitled to lay submarine cables and pipelines on the bed of the high seas.”), 26(3)
(“When laying such cables or pipelines the State in question shall pay due regard to cables or pipelines
already in position on the seabed. In particular, possibilities of repairing existing cables or pipelines
shall not be prejudiced.”); UNCLOS art. 112(1) (“All States are entitled to lay submarine cables and
pipelines on the bed of the high seas beyond the continental shelf.”).
42The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 The freedom to install and maintain submarine cables on the continental
shelf,42 subject to reasonable measures for the exploration of the continental
shelf and the exploitation of its natural resources;43
 The freedom to install and maintain submarine cables in the exclusive
economic zone of all states;44
 The ability to install submarine cables in a state’s territory or territorial sea
subject to conditions and exercise of national jurisdiction;45 and
 The freedom to maintain existing submarine cables passing through the waters
of an archipelagic state without making landfall.46
These treaty obligations are now treated as customary international law,47 in particular by
the United States.48
42 UNCLOS arts. 79(1) (“All States are entitled to lay submarine cables and pipelines on the continental
shelf, in accordance with the provisions of this article”), 79(5) (“When laying submarine cables or
pipelines, States shall have due regard to cables or pipelines already in position. In particular,
possibilities of repairing existing cables or pipelines shall not be prejudiced.”). See also UNCLOS, art.
78(2) (“The exercise of the rights of the coastal State over the continental shelf must not infringe or
result in any unjustifiable interference with navigation and other rights and freedoms of other States as
provided for in this Convention.”).
43 Continental Shelf Convention, art. 4 (“Subject to its right to take reasonable measures for the
exploration of the continental shelf and the exploitation of its natural resources, the coastal State may
not impede the laying or maintenance of submarine cables or pipe lines on the continental shelf.”);
UNCLOS, arts. 79(2) (“Subject to its right to take reasonable measures for the exploration of the
continental shelf, the exploitation of its natural resources and the prevention, reduction and control of
pollution from pipelines, the coastal State may not impede the laying or maintenance of such cables or
pipelines”), 79(4) (“Nothing in this Part affects the . . . [coastal state’s] jurisdiction over cables and
pipelines constructed or used in connection with the exploration of its continental shelf or exploitation
of its resources or the operations of artificial islands, installations and structures under its
jurisdiction.”). The course of a pipeline on the continental shelf is subject to coastal-state consent,
while the course of a submarine cable is not. See id., art. 79(3) (“The delineation of the course for the
laying of such pipelines on the continental shelf is subject to the consent of the coastal State.”).
44 UNCLOS art. 58(1) (“In the exclusive economic zone, all States, whether coastal or land-locked,
enjoy, subject to the relevant provisions of this Convention, the freedoms referred to in article 87 of
navigation and overflight and of the laying of submarine cables and pipelines.”).
45 Id., art. 79(4) (“Nothing in this Part affects the right of the coastal State to establish conditions for
cables or pipelines entering its territory or territorial sea”).
46 Id., art. 51(2).
47 See Delimitation of the Maritime Boundary in the Gulf of Maine Area (Can. v. U.S.), 1984 I.C.J Rep.
246, 294 ¶ 94 (1984).
48 The United States recognized these freedoms starting in 1983, even though the United States has never
ratified the UNCLOS (it signed only in 1994) and even though the Convention did not enter into force
for those states that had ratified it until 1994. Presidential proclamations by two different U.S.
presidents expressly stated that the establishments of an Exclusive Economic Zone (“EEZ”) and a
43The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
For purposes of the EEZ and the continental shelf, submarine cables are distinguished
from (1) artificial islands, (2) structures and installations used for exploration or
exploitation of living or nonliving natural resources or for “other economic purposes,”
and (3) installations and structures which may interfere with the exercise of the rights of
the coastal state in the EEZ or on the continental shelf.49 Although these treaties permit
coastal states to take reasonable measures respecting natural resource exploitation on the
Continental Shelf, they bar states from taking such measures with respect to submarine
cables, the construction and repair of which are not undertaken for natural resource
exploration or exploitation.50 These treaty provisions are reflected in the official position
of the United Nations’ Office of Legal Affairs of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the
Law of the Sea, which states that:
[B]eyond the outer limits of the 12 nm territorial sea, the coastal
State may not (and should not) impede the laying or maintenance
of cables, even though the delineation of the course for the laying
of such pipelines [but not submarine cables] on the continental
shelf is subject to its consent. The coastal State has jurisdiction
only over cables constructed or used in connection with the
exploration of its continental shelf or exploitation of its resources
or the operations of artificial islands, installations and structures
under its jurisdiction.51
Thus, a coastal nation must forbear from imposing any restrictions on the installation or
maintenance of submarine cables unless those submarine cables themselves are used for
natural resource exploration or exploitation.
contiguous zone, respectively, did not infringe on the high-seas freedoms to lay and repair submarine
cables. See Presidential Proc. No. 5030, 48 Fed. Reg. 10,605 (Mar. 10, 1983) (“Pres. Proc. No. 5030”)
(establishing the U.S. EEZ); Presidential Proclamation No. 7219, 64 Fed. Reg. 48,701 (Aug. 2, 1999)
(establishing the U.S. contiguous zone).
49 UNCLOS, arts. 56, 60(1), 80.
50 Id., art. 79(2); Continental Shelf Convention, art. 4.
51 Maritime Space: Maritime Zones and Maritime Delimitations—Frequently Asked Questions, United
Nations Department of Oceans and Law of the Sea, Office of Legal Affairs (responding to Question
#7, “What regime applies to the cables and pipelines?”), http://www.un.org/Depts/los/
LEGISLATIONANDTREATIES/frequently_asked_questions.htm.
44The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Coastal states also have obligations to prevent willful or negligent damage to cables.52
All states “shall have due regard to cables or pipelines already in position.”53 Coastal
states and archipelagic states have the right to adopts laws and regulations to protect
submarine cables with respect to foreign vessels’ exercise of the right of innocent
passage.54 Submarine cables are thus afforded a great degree of protection from
regulation or interference by coastal states, reflecting the vital role that submarine cables
play in facilitating communications, commerce, and government.
Federal Offenses for Cable Damage
U.S. law provides that damaging a submarine cable—whether deliberately or through
negligence—is a federal offense punishable by fine, imprisonment, or both.55 The
penalties, however, are unlikely to deter negligent or willful damage and do not even
cover the cost of the repair. For willful damage, U.S. law provides for a fine of up to
$5,000 and/or a prison term not to exceed two years. For culpably negligent damage,
U.S. law provides for a fine of up to $500 and a prison term not to exceed three months.56
Federal law imposes obligations on fishing vessels to keep their nets from interfering
with or damaging submarine cables, and requires fishing vessels to maintain a minimum
distance from any vessel engaged in laying submarine cable or any buoy placed to mark
the position of a submarine cable.57 As with other penalty provisions under U.S. law, the
penalties for interference or damage to cables by fishermen have little deterrence value,
as they permit a fine up to $250 and a prison term not to exceed 10 days. Submarine
cable owners do have, however, a right under U.S. law to sue for damages to their cables.
As noted in Section 7 of this report, countries such as Australia and New Zealand—
which have implemented the world’s most advance cable-protection regimes—impose
substantial penalties for cable damage and achieve much greater deterrence.
As discussed in Section 7 below, submarine cable operators themselves have developed
industry standards and private contractual arrangements for managing marine spatial
52 See UNCLOS, art. 113 (“Every State shall adopt the laws and regulations necessary to provide that the
breaking or injury by a ship flying its flag or by a person subject to its jurisdiction of a submarine cable
beneath the high seas done willfully or through culpable negligence, in such a manner as to be liable to
interrupt or obstruct telegraphic or telephonic communications, and similarly the breaking or injury of
a submarine pipeline or high-voltage power cable, shall be a punishable offence. This provision shall
apply also to conduct calculated or likely to result in such breaking or injury. However, it shall not
apply to any break or injury caused by persons who acted merely with the legitimate object of saving
their lives or their ships, after having taken all necessary precautions to avoid such break or injury.”).
53 Id., art. 79(5).
54 Id., arts. 21(c), 52.
55 47 U.S.C. §§ 21 (willful damage), 22 (negligent damage).
56 Id.
57 See 47 U.S.C. § 25.
45The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
conflicts and minimizing cable damage. These tools include cable-crossing agreements
and minimum separation distances from cables.58 Such self-help remedies, however,
appear increasingly insufficient given the increase in offshore marine activities.
Models for Cable Protection
Most models of cable protection focus on spatial separation between submarine cables
and other marine activities (including other submarine cables). With sufficient
separation, the risks of direct disturbance via equipment or anchors or impeded access for
establishment of diverse routes or timely maintenance are minimized. Industry
organizations have developed recommendations and standards for separation—and
network configurations to maintain the continuity of communications even in the event of
cable damage. They have also developed coordination mechanisms with other marine
industries to minimize risks. Many foreign governments have adopted more systematic
cable-protection legislation and regimes, including formal spatial-separation schemes. In
addition, the cable industry has entered into arrangements with local commercial fishing
organizations to agree to coordinate cable routing and trawling operations in fishing areas
where cables are present and with oil and gas companies to manage pipeline crossings.
Industry Standards and Cable-Awareness Programs
Submarine cable operators have a long history of developing industry standards and
cable-awareness programs to enhance cable protection and to educate other persons
operating in the marine environment. These efforts include standards regarding the
spatial separation of marine infrastructure, notification of nautical charting authorities of
installed submarine cable locations, and sharing of location information with commercial
fishermen. These activities help to raise awareness and understanding of submarine cable
operations and promote risk-mitigation measures, which governments may reflect in their
domestic legal regimes and which may be reflected in voluntary cross-industry
agreements. In the case of Australia and New Zealand, the Australian Communications
and Media Authority (“ACMA”) and the Ministry of Transport, respectively, undertake
themselves the dissemination of cable route information and liaise directly with fishing
and maritime industries, supplementing industry efforts.
58 Industry standards have been developed over many decades to facilitate cable installation, retrieval,
and repair operations above and below the ocean surface. These standards minimize the risk of
damage to neighboring cables during installation and maintenance operations and ensure access to a
damaged cable with both a cable ship and other equipment to be used on the sea floor. See, e.g.,
International Cable Protection Committee Recommendation No. 2, at 5, available from the
International Cable Protection Committee at www.iscpc.org (ICPC Recommendation No. 2).
46The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
At the international level, the International Cable Protection Committee (“ICPC”) is the
leading international submarine cable industry association. It was established in 1958
and is based in London. ICPC currently has 143 members representing more than 60
countries. Members include submarine cable owners, maintenance authorities, system
manufacturers, cable ship operators, route survey companies, and governments. ICPC
seeks to protect submarine cables from man-made and natural hazards.
Among its many activities, ICPC has promulgated recommendations that define the
minimum standards for cable route planning, installation, operation, maintenance and
protection:
No. Issue Recommendation
1 12 Recovery of Out of Service Cables
This document provides the ICPC’s recommendations in relation to recovery
of a submarine cable system that is redundant or has been taken out of
service. Taken into consideration are legal requirements, environmental
concerns, salvage, and proximity to adjacent infrastructure (other cables, oil
and gas facilities, etc.)
2 10 Cable Routing and Reporting Criteria
This Recommendation provides generalized cable routing and notification
criteria that the ICPC recommends be used when undertaking cable route
planning activities where the cable to be installed crosses, approaches close to
or parallels an existing or planned cable system. For parallel submarine
cables, this Recommendation recommends a separation distance of the lesser
of 3 times depth of water, or where not achievable, 2 times the depth of water
following consultation and agreement between affected parties.
3 10 Telecommunications Cable and Oil Pipeline / Power Cables
Crossing Criteria
The continued increase in both the numbers of submarine cables and the
exploitation of oil and gas from the seabed inevitably means that there will be
more cases of crossings between telecommunications cables, power cables,
and pipelines. The purpose of this document is to give guidance to those who
are faced with this situation and provides some basic questions that need to be
asked as the first step in considering any proposed crossing so that areas of
concern can be identified and mutually acceptable solutions developed.
4 8 Co-ordination Procedures for Repair Operations Near In Service
Cable Systems
This document provides recommended procedures with respect to any repair
operations that are undertaken near active cable systems. The procedures
apply to the repair operations of active cable systems in the vicinity of any
cable crossing or cables that are closely parallel. Considerations to be
addressed include proximity to each other, ship operations, cable retrieval
options, repair scheduling, establishing points of contact, and other non-site
specific guidelines.
47The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
No. Issue Recommendation
6 8A Actions for Effective Cable Protection (Post Installation)
This recommendation concerns post-installation measures to mitigate the risk
of cable faults caused by human activities such as fishing and vessel
anchoring. Such measures are often referred to as marine liaison, offshore
liaison, or cable awareness. Different measures may be appropriate in
different areas, even when a single cable system is involved. Such measures
must take into account the characteristics of the different mariners active in
each area, such as fishermen, merchant mariners, pilots, port authorities,
military officers, marine traffic control officials, operators of resource
extraction vessels, etc. These conditions and risks may change over time.
7 6 Offshore Civil Engineering Work in the Vicinity of Active
Submarine Cable Systems
This document recommends the procedure to be followed when civil
engineering or offshore construction work is undertaken in the vicinity of
active submarine cable systems. The construction company responsible for
the civil/structural work should discuss their plans with the responsible cable
owner in order to determine operational and maintenance issues and liabilities
that may impact on the submarine cable or the planned structure. The
construction company should work with the cable owner to accurately
identify the physical location of the cable systems in the vicinity of the
planned civil works. Depending on the circumstances, the location work
could require either divers or a Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) to assist in
the cable locating work.
8 7A Offshore Seismic Survey Work in the Vicinity of Active
Submarine Cable Systems
An active submarine cable system includes electro-optic devices that are
required to manage the signal at intervals along its route. If the internal
components of these submerged devices are subjected to acceleration greater
than specification there is a risk of serious damage. This document
recommends the procedure to be followed while offshore seismic survey
work is undertaken in the vicinity of active submarine cable systems where
these are installed in water depths of 200 meters or less.
13 2 The Proximity of Offshore Renewable Wind Energy
Installations and Submarine Cable Infrastructure in National
Waters
This document provides guidance on the considerations that should be given
in the development of projects requiring proximity agreements between
offshore wind farm projects and submarine cable projects within national
waters. The document addresses installation and maintenance constraints
related to wind farm structures, associated cables and other submarine cables
where such structures and submarine cables will occupy proximate areas of
seabed.
ICPC Recommendation 13, Issue 2, is designed to apply to offshore wind energy
projects, however, it states that its recommendations for the process of stakeholder
consultation and consideration of safety zones can apply equally well to wave and tidal
marine hydrokinetic (MHK) projects. Although the recommendation establishes a
48The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
methodology for determining site-specific proximity limits, it establishes a default
separation distance for shallower waters:
The Working Zone for traditional repair scenarios is likely to be in
the order of 500m either side of the existing submarine cable. This
is based on the expected area required to undertake cable fault
location using trailed electrodes, grapnel and final bight
deployment operations. Guidance in this document is considered
appropriate for water depths up to 75m.
ICPC Recommendation 13, Issue 2 was based on the Subsea Cables UK Guideline No. 6,
discussed further below.
In the United States, the North American Submarine Cable Association (“NASCA”) is
the leading submarine cable industry and cable-protection organization. NASCA
develops standards and procedures for federal, state, and local government approval of
new submarine cables, consults regularly with other marine industries, disseminates
information about installed submarine cables (including route position list (“RPL”) data
for its members’ installed submarine cables), and promotes public awareness of
submarine cables. NASCA participates directly as a stakeholder organization in the Mid-
Atlantic Council on the Ocean (“MARCO”) and the Northeast Regional Ocean Council
(“NROC”). With respect to mitigation of risks associated with renewable energy
infrastructure, NASCA has endorsed ICPC recommendations and Subsea Cables UK’s
key guideline regarding spatial separation of submarine cables and offshore wind energy
facilities, discussed below.
Subsea Cables UK is the principal submarine cable industry organization in the United
Kingdom and focuses on marine safety and protection of submarine cables from man-
made and natural hazards—efforts of critical importance given the intensive use of
adjacent ocean areas for vessel traffic, commercial fishing, offshore wind farms, and
other marine activities. Subsea Cables UK has extensive experience working with
commercial fishing industry and the offshore wind energy industry in matters relating to
shared use of the seabed.
As the United Kingdom’s offshore wind energy industry is far more developed than that
of the United States, the submarine cable and offshore wind energy industries have had
significantly more experience in working to coordinate and protect their respective
activities off the UK coast than they have had off the U.S. coast. Subsea Cables UK
worked with the Crown Estate and offshore wind farm developers to develop SCUK
Guideline 6, The Proximity of Offshore Renewable Energy Installations & Submarine
Cable Infrastructure in UK Waters (“SCUK Guideline 6”), which addresses the
49The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
“installation and maintenance constraints related to wind farm structures, associated
cables and other submarine cables where such structures and submarine cables will
occupy proximate areas of seabed.”59 SCUK Guideline No. 6 establishes basic principles
for determining safe proximity distances and negotiating proximity agreements that can
be applied equally well to tidal and wave energy projects. SCUK Guideline 6, and its
underlying principles, should be followed for all projects, until such time as the industry
develops guidelines specific to wave and tidal energy infrastructure.
Default and Minimum Separation Distances
A default separation distance establishes a minimum separation distance between an
existing submarine cable and another marine or coastal activity, absent mutual agreement
to allow the activity in closer proximity to the submarine cable (which sometimes
includes assumption of liability or up-front payments to cover the risk of potential
damage to submarine cables). A minimum separation distance establishes an absolute
minimum separation distance between the submarine cable and the other marine or
coastal activity.
Although no U.S. federal, state, or local government agency has promulgated laws or
regulations establishing default or minimum separation distances, various federal
agencies have long used the broader concept of spatial separation to minimize conflicts
between marine activities. For example, BOEM has reached an informal agreement with
the U.S. Coast Guard not to allow the installation of wind energy structures within one
nautical mile of a traffic separation scheme.60 The U.S. Coast Guard also regularly
establishes safety zones around facilities energy exploration and exploitation activities on
the U.S. outer continental shelf “to promote the safety of life and property on the
facilities, their appurtenances and attending vessels, and on the adjacent waters within the
safety zones.”61
Consistent with ICPC and other industry standards, many foreign governments have
established default or minimum separation distances to protect submarine cables. For
example:
59 The Proximity of Offshore Renewable Energy Installations & Submarine Cable Infrastructure in UK
Waters, Subsea Cables UK, Guideline No. 6, Issue 4 at 6 (August 2012),
www.subseacablesuk.org.uk/download/?Id=123&source=guidelines.
60 See, e.g., Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Atlantic Wind Lease Sale 3 (ATLW3) Commercial
Leasing for Wind Power on the Outer Continental Shelf Offshore Maryland—Final Sale Notice, 79
Fed. Reg. 38,060 (July 3, 2014). The U.S. Coast Guard stated that “it may determine in the future that
a larger setback is necessary under certain circumstances.”
61 33 C.F.R. §§ 147.1, 147.15.
50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 China: National law establishes protection zones around submarine cables of 50
meters in harbor areas, 100 meters in narrow coastal-water areas, and 500 meters
in broad coastal waters.62
 Denmark: National regulations require establishment of a cable protection zone
of 200 meters on each side of an installed submarine cable system and prohibiting
anchoring, pipeline installation, dredging, boulder removal, and use of equipment
on the seabed in such protection zones.63
 Indonesia: National regulations provide for the establishment of a restricted area
of 3500 meters in width around any submarine cable and requiring any additional
cable to be located at least 500 meters apart.64
 Japan: Japan’s cable protection law provides for the designation of protection
area not exceeding 1000 meters around a submarine cable.65
 Russia: National regulations require the establishment of a security zone of 0.25
nautical miles on either side of a submarine cable.66
 Singapore: National maritime law allows for the establishment of protection
areas around existing submarine cables (which Singaporean law calls “corridors”)
and may require vessels that fail to observe them to indemnify cable owners for
damage.67
 United Kingdom: The Marine Management Organization, which acts as the UK
marine regulator, recommends a 500 meter “exclusion” zone around cables (250
meters each side of the cable), plus an additional 250 meter “buffer” zone for all
seabed uses “to avoid damage.”68
62 Provisions on the Protection of Submarine Cables and Pipelines, Order of the Ministry of Land and
Resources of the People’s Republic of China (No. 24), art. 7 (Dec. 30, 2003).
63 Order on Protection of Submarine Cables and Pipelines (The Order on Cables), No. 939, arts. 1-4
(Nov. 27, 1992).
64 Minister of Transportation Decision 94/1999 on the Protection and Security of Submarine
Telecommunication Cable System, art. 1 (Oct. 14, 1999).
65 Telecommunications Business Law, Law No. 86, art. 141(1) (Dec. 25, 1984), last amended by Law
No. 125 (July 24, 2003), http://www.soumu.go.jp/main_sosiki/joho_tsusin/eng/Resources/
laws/2001TBL.pdf.
66 Rules for the Protection of Lines and Structures, Order No. 578, art. II(4)(a) (June 9, 1995).
67 Singapore Maritime and Port Authority Act, § 46(8), http://www.mpa.gov.sg/sites/port_and_shipping/
maritime_legislation_of_singapore/maritime_and_port_authority_of_singapore_act.page.
68 UK Marine Management Organization (“MMO”), Strategic Scoping Report for Marine Planning in
England, at 115 (Aug. 2013), https://www.gov.uk/government/
uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/312327/ssr-august2013.pdf.
51The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Cable Protection Zones and Corridors
Unlike default separation distances or buffer zones, cable protection zones and corridors
prohibit specified activities posing risks to submarine cables—including fishing,
anchoring, and dredging—within fixed geographic areas. Cable protection zones grant
protections to submarine cables that choose to locate—or are already located—therein.
Corridors, by contrast, require submarine cable operators to route their infrastructure in
defined geographic areas. Both Australia and New Zealand—which have the world’s
most advanced cable protection regimes—have established cable protection zones. Most
countries have refrained from establishing corridors except in harbors or other constricted
marine areas.
Under the Australian Telecommunications Act, ACMA can proclaim a protected zone
over one or more cables. These protected zones may operate in the territorial sea, the
EEZ or on the continental shelf. The protection zones under the Act extend up to one
nautical mile on either side of the cable, or in an area between the cables. Within this
protection zone a range of activities may be prohibited or restricted and special
permitting processes are available as appropriate. In the event a person suffers cable
damage either directly or indirectly, that person may recover against the person who
breached the protection zone and damaged the cable.
In New Zealand, the Submarine Cables and Pipelines Protection Act 1996 (“SCCPA,”
based largely on Australia’s legislative framework)69 and the Prosecution Protocol issued
by the Ministry of Transport in consultation with the owners of major submarine cables
or pipelines landing in in New Zealand, establish a framework of protection areas for
submarine cables, power transmission cables, and oil and gas pipelines and criminal
offenses and fines for damage to submarine cables, power transmission cables, and
pipelines. New Zealand currently has 11 cable protection zones, which are monitored by
sea and air patrols. Fines range from NZ $2,000 for recreational boating offenses in
protection areas to NZ $100,000 for fishing or anchoring that involves commercial gain
in protection areas.
Submarine cable operators have generally taken a favorable view of cable protection
zones. Cable protection zones, such as those of Australia and New Zealand, typically
cover large marine areas in order to provide sufficient separation between cables for
installation and maintenance purposes and to provide at least some measure of
geographic diversity farther off shore. The size of cable protection zones could make
them infeasible in marine and coastal areas that are already intensively developed.
By contrast, submarine cable operators have generally expressed concern about cable
corridors out of concern that such corridors (a) are likely to be narrow and therefore
69 Submarine Cables and Pipelines Protection Act of 1996, Public Act 1996 No. 22 (May 16, 1996).
www.legislation.govt.nz/act/public/1996/0022/latest/DLM375803.html.
52The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
provide insufficient spatial separation from other submarine cables for installation and
maintenance, (b) encourage geographic clustering of submarine cables, which magnifies
the risk that a single natural or man-made event could damage multiple cables or cable
landing stations and thereby impair the continuity of communications on particular
geographic routes, and (c) limit landing options to particular coastal points, which might
be inconveniently located with respect to terrestrial backhaul networks and customers.
Laws Establishing Civil and Criminal Liability for Cable Damage
The 1884 Convention requires state parties to establish offenses for cable damage. As
noted in part 5.2 above, the United States has established offenses for willful and
negligent injury to submarine cables, but the penalty amounts have not been updated
since enactment more than 125 years ago. Other countries, such as Australia and New
Zealand (as noted in Section 7.3 above) have established more substantial penalties, ones
that are more likely to have a deterrent effect on those who might damage submarine
cables. Countries such as Sweden require that if the owner of a cable or pipeline causes
damage to causing another cable or pipeline damaged, the owner shall pay the cost of
repairing the damage.70 Russian law provides for recovery of the repair and
consequential damages resulting from submarine cable damage.71
Marine Spatial Planning
To date, U.S. federal agencies have generally undertaken only site-specific analyses for
individual cases and projects, which places the burden on the submarine cable operator to
justify a particular method of protection. The most recent efforts for spatial planning in
the U.S. territorial sea and EEZ are largely focused on environmental protection.72
Although these efforts have considered traditional and renewable energy development,
fisheries, shipping, and recreational use, they have generally failed to address submarine
cables.
Although no federal agency has developed spatial separation standards for submarine
cables and energy infrastructure, some U.S. states have been more inclined than others to
address matters relating to cable separation, installation, available routing, and landing
70 Law (1996: 518) on liability for damage to submarine cables and pipelines, etc.,
http://rkrattsbaser.gov.se/cgi-bin/thw?%24{HTML}=sfst_lst&%24{OOHTML}=sfst_dok&%24
{SNHTML}=sfst_err&%24{BASE}=SFST&%24{TRIPSHOW}=format%3DTHW&BET=1996:518.
71 Rules for the Protection of Lines and Structures, Order No. 578, art. V(53) (June 9, 1995).
72 See Executive Order 13547, Stewardship of the Ocean, Our Coasts, and the Great Lakes, 75 Fed. Reg.
43,023 (July 19, 2010).
53The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
locations. The State of Oregon, for example, has incorporated cable protection
considerations into its marine spatial plan, adopted pursuant to state regulations.73
Spatial planning for ocean use has recently been initiated on a regional and state level in
some cases. Most of these efforts have not resulted in adoption of default or minimum
separation distances for protection of submarine cables. The current status of these
efforts is summarized in Appendix C.
Private Coordination Arrangements
Commercial fishermen (particularly those engaged in bottom trawling and crab pot
fishing) and submarine cable owners have formed regional committees in specific areas
around the world to address sharing of the seabed. In most of these cases, the parties
have entered into a cooperative agreement on cable routing to avoid highly fished areas,
declaration of no-fishing zones, and fishing procedures in the vicinity of submarine
cables. Most, if not all of these agreements, are region- and cable-specific, such as with
the Oregon Fishermen’s Cable Committee (“OFCC”) and the Central California Joint
Cable/Fisheries Liaison Committee (“CCFLC”), which cover 15 submarine cables
landing on the U.S. Pacific coast. In the 14-year history of the OFCC and the CCFLC,
there has been only one instance of cable damage attributable to fishing activity. In most
of the world (Japan is the notable exception), submarine cable operators compensate
commercial fishermen for the loss of snagged gear but not for the inability to fish in close
proximity to submarine cables.
Submarine cable operators have a long history of negotiating private agreements with
other offshore infrastructure owners to manage cable protection risks, but such efforts
require the willing participation of other offshore infrastructure owners. Consistent with
ICPC recommendations, submarine cable owners have long entered into crossing
agreements with pipeline and power transmission cable operators. These agreements
define the locations of the respective infrastructures, agreed crossing notification
procedures, and means and methods for the activity.
With offshore renewable energy infrastructure, there have been no such agreements with
submarine cable operators, although submarine cable operators remain interested in
negotiating such agreements. This is due in part to the relative newness of such projects,
but also a general lack of awareness of submarine cables on the part of the offshore
renewable energy industries and the failure of those industries to consult with submarine
73 Oregon Admin. Rules 141-083-0810 to 0870, Rules for Granting Easements for Fiber Optic and Other
Cables on State-Owned Submerged and Submersible Land within the Territorial Sea,
http://arcweb.sos.state.or.us/pages/rules/oars_100/oar_141/141_083.html.
54The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
cable operators in the planning stages of their projects or indeed comply with regulatory
requirements for such consultations.74
Supplement to Spatial Separation: Mesh Networking
In addition to the measures noted above, which focus on spatial separation of submarine
cables from each other and other marine activities, some submarine cable operators also
seek to minimize the risk of service outages from any one network component through
the use of optical mesh-network topologies. A mesh network topology is a decentralized
network design in which each node on the network connects to at least two other nodes
on the network and in which the network permits reconfiguration and routing around
broken or unreliable nodes, ensuring a self-healing capability. Mesh networking is used
with other resilience strategies, such as the dispersal of key functions across multiple
service providers, systems, and supply chains—to enhance the continuity of
communicates and reduce outage recovery times.
Mesh-network topologies are used most commonly with mobile wireless networks, but
are also used in submarine and terrestrial fiber-optic networks to achieve the same result:
maintaining continuity of communications between the originating and terminating points
on a network. Network operators can configure mesh topologies using facilities that they
own, hold via IRU, or lease. The use of optical mesh topologies by service providers
serves to enhance the resiliency of submarine cable networks, but it is not a substitute for
other cable protection measures. Figure 7 shows Verizon’s trans-Atlantic optical mesh
network, which has been designed with physical diversity and thus resiliency for the
network to recover from catastrophic outages.
74 See, e.g., 18 C.F.R. §§ 4.32, 4.81 (establishing information requirements for marine hydrokinetic and
other power project permit applications reviewed by FERC).
55The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Figure 7A: Verizon’s Trans-Atlantic Mesh Network75
Evaluation and Recommendations
Evaluation
Existing submarine cable protection mechanisms in the United States are inadequate in
absolute terms and fall far short of measures adopted by other developed and developing
countries. Although the U.S. Government has identified submarine cables as critical
infrastructure, no U.S. federal agency has transposed that finding in practical terms to
adopt or enforce cable-protection standards or policies. Moreover, federal agencies often
fail to coordinate among themselves and with their state and local counterparts on even
an ad hoc basis to ensure submarine cable protection, resulting in continuing problems
with proposals and licenses for offshore energy installations and dredging projects and
beach replenishment projects directly over or adjacent to installed submarine cables.
Consequently, this disconnect between the acknowledged importance of submarine cable
infrastructure and U.S. Government policies and mechanisms for protecting that
infrastructure continues to pose a serious threat to U.S. national security and the U.S.
economy. Although the United States leads the world in submarine cable connectivity,
its cable protection regime is significantly underdeveloped in comparison to countries
such as Australia and New Zealand.
75 Source: Ciena, Survivable Submarine Optical Networks, http://media.ciena.com/
documents/Survivable_Submarine_Optical_Networks_WP.pdf.
56The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Due to a lack of awareness of submarine cables, their operational requirements, and their
national security and economic significance, federal, state, and local agencies can
exacerbate risks to submarine cable infrastructure. The self-help mechanisms
traditionally used by submarine cable operators to coordinate with offshore oil and gas
and commercial fishing activities have thus far proven wholly inadequate for addressing
emerging issues with offshore renewable energy development and increasingly fail to
address continuing issues with oil and gas development, dredging, and beach
replenishment. To enhance and supplement existing industry efforts, WG8 recommends
that the FCC endorse the recommendations set forth below, which consist of a mix of
industry and FCC initiatives.
Recommendations
Early Consultation: The FCC and submarine cable operators should work with other
U.S. Government agencies and other stakeholders to consult with and among each other
at the earliest possible time to address spatial requirements for submarine cables and their
relationship to other proposed marine activities and infrastructure.
Multiple Measures: The FCC and submarine cable operators should promote
development and implementation of multiple measures—some existing, some yet to be
developed—by government agencies and industry. Submarine cable protection is a
complex undertaking that requires more than just a default separation distance from other
marine activities, helpful though such a default separation distance can be.
Categorical Exclusion Zones Around Existing Submarine Cables: The FCC should
endorse and explore with other federal, state, and local government agencies the creation
of exclusion zones around existing submarine cables that would exclude on a categorical
basis activities within a defined distance of a submarine cable absent agreement with the
submarine cable owner. These zones should reflect well-established spatial requirements
for cable installation and maintenance. Technological developments by other marine
activities are irrelevant to these minimum spatial requirements, and no amount of
consultation will change these minima. Where submarine cables traverse lease blocks for
potential energy leases and rights of way for energy infrastructure, energy agencies
should either (a) require lessees to maintain specified separation distances between
offshore energy facilities and submarine cables or (b) decline to authorize development
and installation offshore energy facilities within specified areas of lease blocks
containing submarine cables.
Default Separation Distances: In the absence of a specific methodology or separation
distances for specific offshore activities in relation to submarine cables, and in the
absence of agreement among agencies and stakeholders for particular activities or
57The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
particular projects, the FCC should—consistent with ICPC and other industry
recommendations and the best practices of other governments—endorse a default
separation distance of 500 meters in water depths of less than 75 meters and the greater of
500 meters or two times the depth of water in greater water depths. The FCC should also
urge other federal, state, and local government agencies to recognize such default
separation distances. Such a default separation distance would not prohibit closer
proximity between a submarine cable and another offshore activity, but it would require
consultation and agreement between the affected parties.
Endorsement of Existing International and U.K. Standards: The FCC should
recognize—and urge other federal, state, and local government agencies to recognize—
ICPC, NASCA, and Subsea Cables UK recommendations as standards and best practices
regarding submarine cable protection.
Development of New and Updated Standards: The FCC should encourage NASCA,
ICPC, and other industry bodies to update existing recommendations and develop new
ones to address emerging risks, such as specific developments with renewable energy
facilities and activities.
Greater Public Dissemination of Standards: The FCC should encourage ICPC to
undertake measures to enhance the public availability and dissemination of its
recommendations and model crossing agreement. Historically, many of these documents
have been available only on request, a practice that can limit awareness of these critical
cable-protection tools.
Recharacterization of ICPC “Recommendations”: The FCC should encourage ICPC
to consider re-labelling its recommendations as standards, given that other marine
activities and regulators often claim that “recommendations” are not authoritative.
ICPC Membership: The FCC should explore whether it or another U.S. Government
agency should join ICPC as a member, as ICPC’s 2013 change in membership rules
means that ICPC now welcomes government participation. Such membership and
participation would provide the FCC with more up-to-date information about submarine
cable operations and deployments and provide a useful forum for engaging on cable-
protection and marine-spatial-planning issues.
Standardize Treatment of Route Position List (“RPL”) Data Across Agencies: The
FCC should work with submarine cable operators and other U.S. Government agencies to
develop a standardized approach to RPL data dissemination—and favor dissemination of
such data—in order to promote awareness of installed submarine cables and the spatial
requirements for existing and future cables. At present, submarine cable operators
receive conflicting requests from various U.S. Government agencies. Some agencies
seek to limit distribution of RPL data for security reasons, out of a fear that RPL data will
provide terrorists with sensitive information about the location of critical infrastructure.
58The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
Other agencies seek to disclose RPL data in full during a permitting process.
Consequently, submarine cable operators and NASCA often hesitate to share such data
out of a concern that one or more U.S. Government agencies will oppose such sharing.
Mesh Networking: The FCC and submarine cable operators should promote the use of
mesh networking as a critical supplement to traditional cable-protection activities,
recognizing that such methods may not be possible for all but the largest carriers.
Greater Statutory Penalties for Cable Damage: The FCC should highlight for other
U.S. Government agencies and the U.S. Congress the need for legislation substantially
increasing the civil and criminal penalties for damage to submarine cable infrastructure.
The current penalty levels are far too low to deter activities that might damage installed
submarine cables and do not even cover the cost of repair. These penalties do not reflect
global best practices.
FCC Rule Modification: The FCC should revoke or revise the standard licensing
condition in 47 C.F.R. § 1.767(g)(2), providing that a cable must be moved upon request
of the Secretary of the Army. This condition is entirely inconsistent with the status of
submarine cables as critical infrastructure, ignores the importance of such infrastructure
to U.S. national security and the U.S. economy, and ignores the fact that such relocation
or removal would cause severe disruptions in communications and entail significant
expense. It also affords undue deference to the Secretary of the Army, as the current
requirement is not mandated by the Cable Landing License Act or Executive Order
10,530, both of which post-date the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899. It also suggests
improperly that the continued presence of a submarine cable in a particular area would
not be a matter of public interest or national defense, when in fact it is.
59APPENDIX A:
EXISTING AND PLANNED SUBMARINE CABLE INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Atlantic-, Gulf of Mexico-, and Caribbean-Region Submarine Cable Systems
The following-in-service submarine cable systems currently connect the Atlantic,
Gulf of Mexico, and/or Caribbean coasts of the United States and its territories:
 Americas-II: landing at Hollywood, Florida; Miramar, Puerto Rico; St. Croix,
U.S. Virgin Islands; Martinique; Curaçao; Venezuela; Trinidad & Tobago; French
Guyana; and Brazil;
 AMX-1: landing at Jacksonville, Florida; Miami, Florida; Puerto Rico; Brazil; the
Dominican Republic; Guatemala; and Mexico;
 Antillas-1: landing at Isla Verde and Miramar, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican
Republic;
 Antilles Crossing: landing at St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, Barbados, and St.
Lucia;
 Apollo: landing at Manasquan, New Jersey; Shirley New York; France, and the
United Kingdom;
 ARCOS-1: landing at North Miami Beach, Florida; Isla Verde, Puerto Rico;
Bahamas; Belize, Colombia; Costa Rica; Curaçao; Dominican Republic;
Guatemala; Honduras; Mexico; Nicaragua; Panama; Turks & Caicos Islands; and
Venezuela;
 Atlantic Crossing-1: landing at Brookhaven, New York; Germany; the
Netherlands; and the United Kingdom;
 Atlantic Crossing-2/Yellow: landing at Bellport, New York, and the United
Kingdom;
 Bahamas-II: landing at Vero Beach, Florida, and the Bahamas;
 Bahamas Internet Cable System: landing at Boca Raton, Florida; Spanish River
Park, Florida, and the Bahamas.
 Canada-United States-1 (CANUS-1): landing at Manasquan, New Jersey, and
Canada;
 Challenger Bermuda: landing at Charlestown, Rhode Island, and Bermuda;
 CFX-1: landing at Boca Raton, Florida; Colombia; and Jamaica;
 Columbus-III: landing at Hollywood, Florida; Italy; Portugal; and Spain;
 FLAG Atlantic-1: landing at Island Park and Northport, New York; France; and
the United Kingdom;The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 Gemini Bermuda: landing at Manasquan, New Jersey, and Bermuda;
 Global Caribbean Network: landing at San Juan, Puerto Rico; St. Croix, U.S.
Virgin Islands; Antigua and Barbuda; Barbados; Dominica; Guadeloupe;
Martinique; Saint Kitts and Nevis; Saint Lucia; Saint Vincent and the Grenadines;
Trinidad and Tobago;
 Globenet, landing at Tuckerton, New Jersey; Boca Raton, Florida; Bermuda;
Brazil; and Venezuela;
 Hibernia Atlantic: landing at Lynn, Massachusetts; Canada; Ireland; and the
United Kingdom;
 MAYA-1: landing at Hollywood, Florida; Cayman Islands; Colombia; Costa
Rica; Honduras; Mexico; and Panama;
 Mid-Atlantic Crossing: landing at Brookhaven, New York; Hollywood, Florida;
and St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands;
 SAm-1: landing at Boca Raton, Florida; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Argentina;
Brazil; Chile; Colombia; Ecuador; and Peru;
 SMPR-1: landing at Isla Verde, Puerto Rico, and St. Maarten;
 Taino-Carib: landing at Condado and Isla Verde, Puerto Rico, and Magens Bay,
St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands;
 TAT-14: landing at Manasquan and Tuckerton, New Jersey; Denmark; France;
Germany; the Netherlands; and the United Kingdom; and
 TGN Atlantic: landing at Wall, New Jersey, and the United Kingdom.76
The following planned or announced new submarine cable systems connect the Atlantic,
Gulf of Mexico, and/or Caribbean coasts of the United States and its territories:
 Cable of the Americas (“COTA”): landing at Boca Raton, Florida, and Brazil;
 Emerald Express: landing at Shirley, New York; Iceland, Ireland, and the United
Kingdom; and
 Guantanamo-Florida Cable: landing at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba, and
South Florida;77
76 See TeleGeography, Submarine Cable Map, www.submarinecablemap.com.
77 Carol Rosenberg, Texas Firm Wins $31 million contract to lay fiber-optic cable to Guantanamo,
MIAMI HERALD (May 16, 2014), http://www.miamiherald.com/2014/05/15/4119740/texas-firm-wins-
31m-guantanamo.html.
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 Pacific-Caribbean Cable System: landing at Jacksonville, Florida, San Juan,
Puerto Rico, Aruba, Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, and Venezuela;
 Seabras-1: landing at New York and Brazil;78 and
 Virgin Islands Next Generation Network: landing at St. Croix and St. Thomas,
U.S. Virgin Islands.
2. Pacific-Region Submarine Cable Systems
The following-in-service submarine cable systems currently connect points on the
Pacific coasts of the United States (including Alaska and Hawaii) and its territories
(including American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands):
 AKORN: landing at Florence, Oregon, and Anchorage, Homer, and Nikiski,
Alaska;
 Alaska Northstar: landing at Nedonna Beach, Oregon, and Lena Point, Valdez,
and Whittier, Alaska;
 Alaska United East: landing at Juneau, Valdez, and Whittier, Alaska, and
Lynwood, Washington;
 Alaska United West: landing at Seward, Alaska, and Warrenton, Oregon;
 American Samoa-Hawaii Cable: landing at Pago Pago, American Samoa,
Keawaula, Hawaii, and Independent Samoa;
 Asia-America Gateway: landing at San Luis Obispo, California; Keawaula,
Hawaii; Tanguisson Point, Guam; Brunei; Hong Kong; Malaysia; the Philippines;
Singapore; Thailand; and Vietnam;
 Australia-Japan Cable: landing at Tanguisson Point and Tumon Bay, Guam,
Australia, and Japan;
 BP Gulf of Mexico Fiber Optic Network: landing at Freeport, Texas, and
Pascagoula, Mississippi;
 China-U.S.: landing at Bandon, Oregon; San Luis Obispo, California;
Tanguisson Point, Guam; China, Japan; Korea; and Taiwan;
 Cook Inlet Segment of TERRA-SW: landing at Homer and Williamsport,
Alaska;
 Endeavour: landing at Keawaula, Hawaii, and Australia;
78 See TeleGeography, Submarine Cable Map, www.submarinecablemap.com.
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 Guam Okinawa Kyushu Incheon Cable: landing at Tumon Bay, Guam, and
Japan;
 HANTRU-1: landing at Piti, Guam, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
 Hawaiian Inter-Island Cable System: landing at Wailua Point, Kauai; Kahe
Point, Oahu, Sandy Beach, Oahu, Mokapu, Maui; and Spencer Beach, Hawaii;
 Hawaiian Islands Fiber Network: landing at Wailua Golf Course, Kauai;
Keawaula, Makaha, and Sandy Beach, Oahu; Lanai; Molokai; Mokapu, Maui; and
Spencer Beach, Hawaii;
 Honotua: landing at Spencer Beach, Hawaii, and Tahiti, French Polynesia;
 Japan-U.S.: landing at Morro Bay, California; Makaha, Hawaii; and Japan;
 Kodiak-Kenai Fiber Link: landing at Anchorage, Homer, Kenai, Kodiak, Narrow
Cape, and Seward, Alaska;
 Mariana-Guam Cable: landing at Rota, Saipan, and Tinian, Northern Mariana
Islands, and Tanguisson Point, Guam;
 Pacific Crossing (PC-1): landing at Harbour Pointe, Washington; Grover Beach,
California; and Japan;
 Pan-American Crossing: landing at Grover Beach, California; Costa Rica,
Mexico; and Panama;
 Paniolo: landing at Hawaii, Maui, Molokai, Oahu, and Kauai, Hawaii;
 PPC-1: landing at Piti, Guam, and Sydney, Australia;
 SEAFAST: landing at Angoon, Hawk Inlet, Juneau, Ketchikan, Petersburg,
Sitka, and Wrangell, Alaska; and
 Southern Cross: landing at Hillsboro, Oregon; Morro Bay, California; Kahe
Point and Spencer Beach, Hawaii; Australia; Fiji; and New Zealand;
 TERRA-SW Cook Inlet Segment: landing at Homer and Williamsport. Alaska.79
 TGN Pacific: landing at Hermosa Beach, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Piti,
Guam; and Japan;
 Trans-Pacific Express: landing at Nedonna Beach, Oregon; China; Japan;
Korea; and Taiwan; and
 Unity: landing at Hermosa Beach, California, and Japan.80
79 See id.
80 See id.
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
The following planned or announced new submarine cable systems will connect points on
the Pacific coasts of the United States (including Alaska and Hawaii) and its territories
(including American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands):
 APX-East: landing at Hermosa Beach, California, and Australia;
 Arctic Fibre: landing at Seattle, Washington; Prudhoe Bay, Alaska; Canada;
Ireland; Japan; and the United Kingdom;
 FASTER: landing at Oregon and Japan;
 Hawaiki: landing at Pacific City, Oregon; Oahu, Hawaii; Australia; and New
Zealand;
 New Cross Pacific Cable (“NCP”): landing at the West Coast of the United
States and China; and
 Pacific-Caribbean Cable System: (described in Section 1 above)
 SEA-US: landing at the West Coast of the United States; Hawaii; Guam; the
Philippines; and Indonesia.81
81 See id. (showing APX-East, Arctic Fibre, and Hawaiki); Julian Rawle, How Sustainable Is Asian
Growth?, SUBMARINE CABLE NEWS (Feb. 14, 2014), www.pioneerconsulting.com/site/
images/stories/Pioneer_Consulting_Rawle_Article_How_Sustainable_is_Asian_Growth_Feb_2014_E
dition_of_SCN.pdf (discussing APX-East, FASTER, Hawaiki, NCP, and SEA-US); NEC Corporation,
A Global Consortium to Build New Trans-Pacific Cable System “FASTER” (Aug. 11, 2014),
http://www.nec.com/en/press/201408/global_20140811_01.html.
5APPENDIX B: SUBMARINE CABLES LANDINGS IN THE UNITED STATESThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
APPENDIX C: STATUS OF STATE AND REGIONAL MARINE SPATIAL
PLANNING EFFORTS
1. Atlantic and Gulf Coast Regions
 Mid-Atlantic Council on the Ocean (“MARCO”) – Includes New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. MARCO is preparing to launch a
regional coastal spatial planning effort using “an ecosystem-based management
approach that considers all human uses and ecosystem elements in the Mid-
Atlantic.” In this planning stage, the specific goals of this project are general and
still being defined. As a first step, MARCO developed a data portal
demonstrating the varied uses of the ocean floor in the Mid-Atlantic. This
mapping tool does not currently identify submarine cables using industry
provided cable data, but MARCO is in the process of adding additional data
layers and may add this information in the future.
 Northeast Regional Ocean Council. NROC includes Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. NROC established an
Ocean Planning Committee to address regional issues related to ocean planning,
this committee is gathering information to develop recommendations for the
Council. To date, the Committee has briefly considered the submarine cables
which could be impacted by the energy sector. NROC has also developed a
mapping tool that includes some information about energy transmission lines and
is working with NASCA to identify cables in the region.
 Governors’ South Atlantic Alliance. GSAA includes North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. GSAA is developing regional coastal spatial
planning tools. To date, GSAA is concentrating its efforts on achieving four
primary objectives: clean coastal waters, working waterfronts, healthy marine
ecosystems, and disaster-resilient communities. GSAA has a limited set of
objectives and has not considered any spatial planning efforts relating to
conflicting uses of the seabed or to submarine cables specifically. However, the
GSAA’s Healthy Ecosystems planning group has prioritized gathering data on
diverse uses of the seabed to aid multi-use management decisions as a key goal.
 Gulf of Mexico Alliance. GMA includes Florida, Alabama, Mississippi,
Louisiana, and Texas, the EPA, NOAA, the Department of the Interior, and other
federal agencies. GMA is developing a marine spatial plan for the region. GMA
considered creating “exclusionary areas” to protect oil & gas platforms and
pipelines, but has not considered protecting submarine cables. GMA is focusing
its efforts on gathering data about natural resources, protected habitats, and water
quality, and has not yet comprehensively addressed the conflicting uses of the
seabed.
1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 Florida. Florida considered proposals for defining preferential areas for cable
landings and routing but those proposals are now dormant. Specifically, the state
proposed imposing more lenient permit conditions and lease fees if cables were
placed in geographically specific locations, or “cable corridors.” NASCA has
raised concerns with this approach.
 Massachusetts - Massachusetts developed the Massachusetts Ocean Plan (Plan)
to provide a comprehensive approach to ocean management, including balancing
current ocean uses with future needs. The Massachusetts Department of Energy
and Environmental Affairs (“EEA”) is currently convening workgroups and
soliciting public comment to update the Plan. The Plan establishes Renewable
Energy Areas based on “exclusionary screening criteria,” including compatibility
with existing uses and avoidance and mitigation of impacts. These factors are
categorical and do not outline specific requirements. The Plan also designates a
Multi-Use Area, open to all uses, including cables, pipelines, and energy facilities
of a certain scale. These uses are managed by siting and performance standards,
not spatial designation. The Plan also includes the Massachusetts Ocean
Resource Information System (“MORIS”), an interactive data portal. The portal
includes data about cables and transmission lines. The map illustrates some
overlap between wind energy areas, cable areas, and tidal resource areas.
 Maryland. In coordination with MARCO, Maryland has ongoing efforts to
develop a wind energy planning area. Maryland’s Department of Natural
Resources (“DNR”) is currently gathering data to reduce conflicting uses,
facilitate compatible uses, and diminish the environmental impact that those uses
may have on the ocean along Maryland’s coast. Maryland is now accepting bids
for two proposed offshore wind energy sites that presumably avoid or limit
contact with other uses, but Maryland has not provided specific information
regarding how these proposed sites were chosen.
 New Jersey. New Jersey’s efforts to address conflicting uses are channelled
through its involvement in MARCO, including contributing data to MARCO’s
GIS data portal. New Jersey has also begun gathering data to develop a state-
specific comprehensive marine spatial plan to manage existing and proposed
offshore uses and resources and decrease conflicts. New Jersey is still in the
preliminary stages of that inquiry and has not yet developed specific
recommendations for the marine spatial plan.
 New York. New York has begun work to develop a comprehensive marine
spatial plan. At this point, New York has produced a report, in conjunction with
NOAA, detailing the impact that new marine uses, such as offshore energy
development, have on marine life and habitats. This report is a preliminary step in
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
a broader effort to develop spatial planning standards to address conflicting uses
of the seabed and achieve conservation objectives.
 Rhode Island. Rhode Island developed the Ocean Special Area Management
Plan (OSAMP), in collaboration with state & federal agencies, and other
stakeholders, to provide regulatory standards for ocean management. OSAMP
specifically contemplates the impact that offshore renewable energy facilities
have on pre-existing cables, and recommends considering pre-existing cables
when siting such facilities. OSAMP incorporates the International Cable
Protection Committee (ICPC) standards by reference.
2. Pacific Coast Regions
 West Coast Governors’ Alliance on Ocean Health. WCGA includes
California, Oregon, and Washington. WCGA’s goal is to “help support rational
and orderly decisions regarding future offshore developments and resource
management challenges off the West Coast.” Beyond that general goal, the
WCGA has not specifically addressed conflicting uses of the seabed.
 California. California maintains an Ocean Resources Management Program to
coordinate the state’s response to marine and coastal management issues. Most of
California’s coastal management efforts are facilitated through its involvement in
the WCGA. The state has developed a Coastal Impact Assistance Program
(“CIAP”) that specifically addresses conflicting uses, including submarine cables.
The CIAP includes plans for further research on these issues. California has
considered creating a more comprehensive marine spatial plan and is currently
collaborating with community leaders and soliciting public comment to begin that
process.
 Hawaii. Hawaii does not have a marine spatial plan. The Hawaii’s Ocean
Resources Management Plan contemplates conflicting uses, but limits that inquiry
to conflicts between commercial uses and natural resources. Hawaii also briefly
considered, but ultimately rejected, cable corridors.
 Oregon. As part of its marine spatial planning efforts, Oregon’s Land
Conservation and Development Commission (“LCDC”), adopted a plan
establishing Proprietary Use and Management Areas (“PUMA”) that are 1000
meters extending on either side of submarine cables. The Oregon plan provides
that applications for marine energy projects proposed within these PUMA areas
will not be accepted unless the proposed new use, in addition to being legally
permissible, complies with the authorized cable use.
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 8
Final Report 1: Spatial Separation December 2014
 Washington State. Washington law requires that an interagency team, including
the Department of Ecology, the Department of Fish and Wildlife, and the
Department of Commerce, develop a marine spatial plan to address conflicting
uses of the seabed along Washington’s Pacific Coast. The statutory requirements
for the spatial plan are open-ended and rely heavily on the expertise of the
interagency team to develop more specific, enforceable requirements. The
interagency team is currently in the process of developing the plan through
consultation with environmental groups and other stakeholders. The Washington
Department of Ecology is evaluating the potential environmental impact of a
marine spatial plan under the State Environmental Policy Act (“SEPA”).
Washington also conditions its Shoreline Conditional Use permits on the
consideration of and compatibility with existing uses.
4
