PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/CSRIC5-WG9-FinalReport031517.pdf:
February, 2017 WORKING GROUP 9
Wi-Fi Security
Final Report – Wi-Fi Security Best PracticesThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 4
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 4
2.2 Working Group 9 Team Members ................................................................................... 4
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 5
3.1 Objective & Scope ........................................................................................................... 5
3.2 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 5
4 Background .............................................................................................................................. 6
4.1 Discussion on Wi-Fi Threats ............................................................................................ 6
4.1.1 Background and Context........................................................................................... 6
4.1.2 Wi-Fi Threats ............................................................................................................ 8
4.1.3 Discussion ................................................................................................................. 9
4.2 Potential Wi-Fi Security Threats .................................................................................... 11
4.3 Example Use Cases & Threats ....................................................................................... 15
4.3.1 Hotel Wi-Fi Network Use Case .............................................................................. 15
4.3.1.1 High Level Description ....................................................................................... 15
4.3.1.2 Potential Security Threats ................................................................................... 16
4.3.1.3 User account management .................................................................................. 16
4.3.2 Convention Center/Public Venue Wi-Fi Network Use Case .................................. 16
4.3.2.1 High Level Description ....................................................................................... 16
4.3.2.2 Potential Security Threats ................................................................................... 17
4.3.2.3 Spectrum Management ........................................................................................ 18
4.3.2.4 Misconfigured or Malfunctioning Rogue APs .................................................... 18
4.3.2.5 Malicious Rogue APs .......................................................................................... 19
4.3.2.6 Time to Mitigate Impact of Rogue APs .............................................................. 19
5 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations ............................................................................ 20
5.1 Analysis & Findings ....................................................................................................... 20
5.1.1 Best Practice: Common Sense Rules for Public Venues ........................................ 20
5.1.2 Best Practices to Deal with Rogue Access Points .................................................. 22
5.1.3 Best Practices from CSRIC Working Group 2A .................................................... 24
5.1.4 Best Practices from Cisco ....................................................................................... 25
5.2 Recommendations .......................................................................................................... 26
5.2.1 Deauthentication ..................................................................................................... 26
5.2.2 Mutual Authentication (network and clients) ......................................................... 27
Appendix A: Suggested Background Reading ............................................................................ 30
Appendix B: Acronyms ............................................................................................................... 31
Page 2 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
Wi-Fi security is an important function and is the topic of investigation of several working
groups in the industry and in the Federal government. It was the objective of the CSRIC
Working Group 9 to propose recommendations on the best practices for Wi-Fi security.
In this report, the working group has proposed Wi-Fi security best practice recommendations
that are supplementary and complimentary to the work of these other groups. The working
group did not want to duplicate the efforts of these other groups and, especially, did not want to
create best practices which conflict with the recommendations of the other groups.
Consequently, the working group has incorporated, at least by reference, the best practices from
the documents of these other groups, including “Common Sense Rules for Public Venues” and
best practices to deal with rogue access points.
In addition, CSRIC Working Group 9 makes the following recommendations:
 CSRIC Working Group 9 recommends that the FCC resolve the policy and legal issues
regarding the ability of enterprise customers or network operators to use de-authentication
to protect Wi-Fi users from legitimate cybersecurity threats.
 CSRIC Working Group 9 recommends that the business or wireless network provider
implement an authenticatable network based on X.509 network identities or SIM cards,
and provide a more robust registration method for short-term clients.
 CSRIC Working Group 9 recommends that a method and technology be developed that
allows a client, during their registration to use a wireless network, be able to securely
obtain and “pin” specific network authentication keys in their client device(s). This better
protects the client from third-party trust store problems.
Page 3 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
2 Introduction
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Table 1: CSRIC Working Group Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) V
Working Groups
Working Group 1 Working Group 2 Working Group 3 Working Group 4A
Evolving 911 Services Wireless Emergency Alert Emergency Alert System Communications
Infrastructure Resiliency
Co-Chairs: Susan Sherwood & Co-Chairs: Francisco Sánchez Co-Chairs: Steven Johnson &
Jeff Cohen & Farrokh Khatibi Kelly Williams Co-Chairs: Kent Bressie &
Catherine Creese
FCC Liaisons: Tim May & FCC Liaisons: Chris Anderson, FCC Liaison: Gregory Cooke
John Healy James Wiley & Gregory Cooke FCC Liaison: Jerry Stanshine
& Michael Connelly
Working Group 4B Working Group 5 Working Group 6 Working Group 7
Network Timing Single Cybersecurity Information Secure Hardware & Software Cybersecurity Workforce
Source Risk Reduction Sharing
Co-Chairs: Brian Scarpelli & Co-Chairs: Bill Boni & Drew
Chair: Jennifer Manner Co-Chairs: Rod Rasmussen, Joel Molinoff Morin
Christopher Boyer, Brian Allen
FCC Liaison: Emil Cherian FCC Liaisons: Steven FCC Liaison: Erika Olsen
FCC Liaisons: Greg Intoccia & McKinnon & Emily Talaga
Vern Mosely
Working Group 8 Working Group 9 Working Group 10
Priority Services Wi-Fi Security Legacy Systems Risk
Reduction
Co-Chairs: William Reidway Chair: Brian Daly
& Thomas Anderson Co-Chairs: John Kimmins &
FCC Liaisons: Peter Shroyer &
Danny McPherson
FCC Liaisons: Tim Perrier & Kurian Jacob
Ken Burnley FCC Liaison: Steven
McKinnon
2.2 Working Group 9 Team Members
Working Group 9 consists of the members listed below:
Table 2 - List of Working Group 9 Members
Name Company
Brian K. Daly – Chair AT&T
Firdaus Aryana CenturyLink
Craig Cowden Charter Communications
Scott Craighead International Association of Exhibitions & Events
Jon Green Aruba, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company
Miles Green Intersection (LinkNYC)
Page 4 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Name Company
Mark Haley Smart City Networks
Paul Hancock AT&T
Jose Jiminez Cox
Mohammad Khaled Nokia
Sameer Khan Sprint
Philip Levis Stanford University
Ethan Lucarelli Inmarsat
Robert Mayer USTelecom Association
Brad Mayne, CFE International Association of Venue Managers
Stephen Orr Cisco
David E Savage Boeing
Brian Scarpelli ACT | The App Association
Mark S. Sims Javits Convention Center
Jesse R. Walker Intel Corporation
Pat Walsh Gogo Inflight
Bing Wang University of Connecticut
Also, DeWayne Sennett of AT&T served as Document Editor and Document Manager for the
development of this CSRIC subgroup report.
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective & Scope
This Working Group will develop, for CSRIC’s consideration, recommended best practices for
promoting security in networks and devices utilizing Wi-Fi spectrum bands. Security concerns
threaten entities utilizing Wi-Fi devices and spectrum. Currently, enterprises utilizing Wi-Fi
spectrum rely on numerous methods to secure their networks and connected devices from
malicious attacks. Working Group 9 will identify, for CSRIC’s consideration when, and under
what circumstances, the use of a variety of advanced security techniques are appropriate.
Specifically, the Working Group will identify, for CSRIC’s consideration: 1) the threats most
consistently facing Wi-Fi network operators and users; 2) the available security techniques to
prevent and/or remediate the threats; 3) the extent to which each technique is effective against
specific threats, avoids interference with legitimate activity, is easily deployed, and is currently
deployed.
3.2 Methodology
The objective of the methodology utilized by the working group was to prevent any duplication
of efforts with other groups that are investigating the topic of Wi-Fi security. Consequently, the
working group examined the reports of other groups and incorporated, at least by reference, the
best practices from the documents of these other groups. Based upon this information, the
CSRIC Working Group 9 developed best practice recommendations that were supplementary
and complimentary to the work of these other groups.
Page 5 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
4 Background
This section provides background information about the security threats to Wi-Fi. Specifically,
this section discusses the following topics:
 General discussion on Wi-Fi security threats.
 Identification of potential security threats toward Wi-Fi.
 Presentation of two example Use Cases – one Use Case on hotel Wi-Fi networks and a
second Use Case on convention center/public venue Wi-Fi networks.
4.1 Discussion on Wi-Fi Threats
4.1.1 Background and Context
The only definition of a secure system we have ever had is one which exhibits only behavior
explicitly defined by its specification. This is because attacks and compromises of cyber-systems
work by attackers invoking unanticipated or unintended system behavior, not via some magical
or supernatural powers.
As an example, the Wi-Fi specification calls for a Wi-Fi device to send messages to another by
broadcasting over a radio channel, with the goal of emulating a point-to-point link between the
two. However, any other radio receiver listening on the same broadcast channel can receive the
message – behavior that is not intended by the Wi-Fi specification. An easy attack against
unsecured Wi-Fi is to utilize this unintended behavior to eavesdrop on messages exchanged
among devices.
It is useful to take a deeper look at what this means.
We build systems by decomposing problems into smaller, more easily solved sub-problems,
build modules or components to solve each of the sub-problems, and then compose the modules
and components together again to form the system. This approach to system development has
two important consequences relevant here.
The first is that security is an emergent global property of the system. Security is a global
property, because one vulnerability anywhere in the system can lead to a compromise of the
entire system. This implies that security is an emergent property, because it can only come about
by (a) all the components manifesting only behavior explicitly defined in their specifications and
by (b) how the components are glued together to establish the behavior of the overall system.
Being an emergent global property implies that security must be traded off against all the other
emergent global system properties – performance, cost, energy consumption, usability, etc. That
is, optimizing for all desirable emergent system properties simultaneously is rarely possible, and
so it is usually necessary to trade off desirable system properties against each other to maximize
the system’s utility.
The second is that the system architecture provides the roadmap for attacks on the system. If
under the standard definition of security, the attacker’s goal is to exploit unanticipated behavior
not explicitly in the functional specification, then the only ways the attacker can accomplish his
goals are to attack the exposed communications channels connecting the components and to
Page 6 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
inject messages into the components via the interfaces they expose. What constitutes an exposed
channel or component interface depends on the attacker’s skills, and so we should expect
adversaries with different kinds of skills are able to attack a system in different ways. As some
examples of different kinds of adversarial skill sets that might be relevant to our discussion:
1. Network adversary. A network adversary can eavesdrop on any message sent over a
communications channel, alter messages, inject messages, delay messages, reorder
messages, miss-deliver messages, and delete messages.
2. Software adversary. A software adversary can read from and write to the memory of
running software, both code and data, and can alter both program control flow and data
in arbitrary ways. This includes the ability to observe program state changes, reverse
engineer the software, thereby revealing all of its functionality to the attacker.
3. Simple hardware adversary. A simple hardware adversary can add, remove, or replace
components on a motherboard, can monitor and inject data and control exchanged
between components, control the electrical and thermal characteristics of system’s
environment, reflash BIOS and other firmware, and the like. A simple hardware
adversary can, in short, transform an existing hardware platform into something with
completely new capabilities and limitations.
4. Sophisticated hardware adversary. A sophisticated hardware adversary can monitor
and reverse engineer operating silicon components, and can also cause the silicon
components to operate outside of their specifications. Such an adversary can steal
cryptographic keys from “secure” hardware and fundamentally alter the operation of any
part.
5. Supply chain adversary. A supply chain adversary can inject backdoors and other
weaknesses into components or software during design and manufacturing, and steal
trade secrets and other proprietary information about how components and software are
designed, manufactured, and function, information which other types of adversaries can
consume to compromise deployed systems.
6. Administrative adversary. An administrative adversary consists of authorized
personnel (aka “insiders”) who abuse their position by deploying, operating, or
maintaining a system in a way that is outside of established policy. They can thereby
illegally obtain personal information about system users, proprietary information about
the organization using the system, misuse the system for personal gain or revenge, etc.
7. Social engineering adversary. A social engineering adversary can exploit human
relationships to gain unauthorized access to system resources. A classical social
engineering attack is to simply ask a user for a password or some other access token, as a
non-negligible percentage of user will comply with the request.
The first job for any cyber-security project is to select adversary models appropriate to its needs,
as this is the only way we know to identify what security problem needs to be solved. The
security goal then is to deter or otherwise mitigate an adversary with the assumed skills, so that
it is no longer possible (or at least expensive) to uses these skills to expose unanticipated system
behavior.
According to conventional security dogma, any one of our adversary models can inflict three
types of damage against a system:
Page 7 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
 Confidentiality compromises. The adversary can conduct unauthorized eavesdropping
on data and control flows, to learn information about the system or its data which is not
intended. As an illustration this corresponds to a network adversary’s assumed ability to
eavesdrop on communications.
 Integrity compromises. The adversary can inject unauthorized data and control into the
system, and modify legitimate data and control flows, to make the system act contrary to
its purpose. Continuing with our illustration, this corresponds to a network adversary’s
assumed ability to alter, inject, delay, reorder, and misdeliver messages.
 Availability compromises. The adversary can disrupt the services the system provides.
This corresponds to a network adversary’s assumed ability to delete messages from a
communications channel.
4.1.2 Wi-Fi Threats
Let us now examine more specific threats to security that Wi-Fi introduces over more traditional
link technologies, like Ethernet. Compared with link technologies based on a physical wire,
Wi-Fi enhances a network adversary’s ability to accomplish all three types of compromises:
1. Anyone with a radio receiver tuned to the right frequency and within about 100 meters of
a Wi-Fi transmitter can capture messages sent over the channel.
2. Anyone with a radio transmitter and within about 100 meters of a Wi-Fi receiver can
send messages on the channel.
3. Anyone with a radio transmitter can jam a Wi-Fi channel used by other devices within
the radio transmitter's area of influence as determined by the ERP (Effective Radiated
Power) of the transmitting device.
Many non-security professionals rank the threat against Wi-Fi’s confidentiality as the one
requiring the most urgent attention. This is in fact an invalid conclusion, as Wi-Fi uses
encryption to provide confidentiality, but encryption provides no integrity protection, and is
more easily compromised by active attackers who create message forgeries than by a passive
listener. As an example, WEP, the original Wi-Fi encryption scheme, is subject to “bit-flipping”
attacks, which results in completely valid forged Wi-Fi messages, even though the attacker lacks
access to the WEP encryption key. Hence, as a practical matter, an integrity mechanism is
needed to derive benefit from encrypting Wi-Fi messages.
It is worth noting that encryption does not mask all the information conveyed over any Wi-Fi
channel. It is both easy and practical to identify particular applications and individual devices
via traffic analysis of encrypted data, i.e., by analyzing the distributions of message timing and
sizes. It is certainly possible to diminish the efficacy of traffic analysis by inserting dummy
messages into the channel, but this kind of counter-measure sabotages Wi-Fi’s ability to provide
acceptable messaging performance. Accordingly, Wi-Fi security does nothing to defeat traffic
analysis, and so its confidentiality claims cannot be absolute.
There also have been calls to make defense against denial-of-service attacks the highest priority.
However, to date defending against denial-of-service has never been viewed as a practical
Page 8 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
problem, as launching a jamming attack has a low-cost, and the known message integrity
mechanisms intentionally transform forgery attacks into denial-of-service attacks. Wi-Fi’s
security architecture has therefore delegated denial-of-service defense to non-technical means.
Existing Wi-Fi devices are often mobile, and so can be moved away from a jamming source, and
can then reconnect when they come within range of an access point whose signal strength is
stronger than the jammer’s. Also, it is reasonably easy to locate and then disable a jamming
device. Neither the “flight” nor the “search-and-destroy” strategy may work with some types of
Internet of Things applications, but these behaviors have proven more cost-effective thus far.
For these reasons, maintaining message integrity is the central design goal for Wi-Fi security,
with confidentiality a secondary goal, and denial-of-service mitigation not a goal at all.
4.1.3 Discussion
Off-the-shelf, easy-to-use, and low-cost tools exist to launch attacks against Wi-Fi
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Given the relative ease of launching successful attack
against a Wi-Fi network that has not been secured against integrity and confidentiality threats, it
seems prudent to utilize Wi-Fi security mechanisms as much as possible.
However, it also seems that Wi-Fi attacks per se are somewhat less of a concern than network
attacks from within the Internet. This is due to the short range of the Wi-Fi radio, normally
around 100 meters. This means that an attacker must be near the Wi-Fi network targeted, and so,
unlike an Internet-based malware attack, attacks against Wi-Fi per se cannot be launched from
anywhere in the world. And since it is reasonably easy to locate the source of an active Wi-Fi
attack, it also means a Wi-Fi attacker is at a significantly greater risk of being apprehended than
for an Internet borne attack. Thus, the locality constraint on Wi-Fi attacks makes it difficult for a
criminal enterprise to build a global business model based exclusively on Wi-Fi vulnerabilities,
so we should expect attacks against Wi-Fi should be opportunistic and at most one tool inside a
larger attacker tool set.
This discussion highlights that Wi-Fi security mechanisms are at best only a small part of a
larger overall security story. The Wi-Fi security technologies WPA and WPA2 (IEEE 802.11i
and ISO/IEC 8802-11i) were formulated assuming only the generic network adversary model.
These security technologies are intended to mask Wi-Fi’s unanticipated behavior which can be
exploited by a local network adversary, but not the unanticipated behavior resulting from the rest
of the system. If Alice and Bob communicate over any sort of communications channel –
whether Wi-Fi or anything else – the communications channel cannot protect Alice from Bob’s
malicious behavior, or vice versa. Wi-Fi security cannot protect Wi-Fi devices from attacks
originating in the Internet. Wi-Fi security cannot protect Wi-Fi devices from other devices
whose software or hardware have been compromised. Wi-Fi security cannot protect Wi-Fi
devices from corrupt administrators or users, or from hardware and software that has
intentionally been weakened via supply chain attacks or from social engineering attacks. This set
of technology therefore seeks to mitigate the ability of network attackers to exploit unintended
Wi-Fi behavior only, but not to address broader security issues.
Even though software adversaries are outside the scope of Wi-Fi security per se, special scrutiny
should be given to an attacker that possesses both the network adversary and software adversary
skill sets. There are several scenarios in which this combination of skills can lead to successful
Page 9 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
attack, even when Wi-Fi security is being used correctly.
1. Wi-Fi session establishment. Wi-Fi security is layered on top of Wi-Fi association.
Mobile clients constantly seek to discover access points and then associate and
authenticate with them when one is found that offers significantly better communications
characteristics than the current access point. The new access point is necessarily
anonymous and hence potentially hostile to the client until after a successful
authentication, which happens as a part of session establishment. Similarly, any client is
anonymous and hence potentially hostile to the access point until after a successful
authentication. Hence any Wi-Fi node must engage in unsecured communication in order
to establish new sessions. While the Wi-Fi session establishment protocols have been
engineered to mitigate this danger somewhat, weak authentication methods such as those
based on passwords or PINs necessarily sensitive leak information, who can then be
captured and then utilized to recover the password. There are also vulnerabilities present
due to Wi-Fi’s attempt to utilize legacy authentication methods never designed for use in
this environment.
2. Malformed datagrams injected into the Wi-Fi channel. Another constant threat are
malformed datagrams. Malformed datagrams are crafted to exploit “bugs” (i.e.,
unanticipated behavior) in the Wi-Fi device driver or hardware. An attacker possessing
both network and software adversarial skills can empirically discover these bugs and
then hand-craft messages that trigger them and transfer control to a script supplied by the
malformed packet. When such unanticipated behavior is present, the malformed
datagram can be sent and processed even when Wi-Fi security is enabled.
Both of these problems are special cases of the generic problem of context sensitivity. Like
many real network protocols, the Wi-Fi protocol suite requires a context sensitive grammar for
its description. A simpler grammar cannot capture the full range of expression. The theory of
computing teaches us that context sensitivity implies two important properties. First, the
protocol specification is necessarily ambiguous – it is in principle impossible to remove all
ambiguity from languages based on context sensitive grammars. This implies that it is formally
undecidable whether independent driver or hardware implementations (i.e., those from different
vendors) provide equivalent semantics. Subtle differences in semantics can, however, be
discovered by empirical observation and then exploited. Second, all languages based on context
sensitive grammars admit what linguists call “novel but appropriate responses,” which are new
sentences never before uttered but which every native speaker of the language will instantly
recognize as valid and meaningful. When it receives a novel message, therefore, there is no
guarantee the receiver will handle it appropriately, because by definition it is a message never
contemplated by the designers. This implies that no amount of testing, review, and analysis can
identify the full range of behaviors which the receiver manifests, so we should always expect
additional undiscovered vulnerabilities every Wi-Fi receiver.
Because of the security problems introduced by module composability on one hand and context
sensitivity on the other, we have never built a system that meets the bar set by the generic
definition of security, which is very compelling evidence that the notion of unconditional
security assumed by many users (and marketers) is infeasible. Accordingly, a more practical
goal than building secure systems is to make the risk of compromise at least fit into a predictable
probability distribution, so the system’s intended ecosystem can determine whether it can absorb
Page 10 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
the costs of compromise.
If it is not feasible to build a system that unconditionally defends against attacks by any of our
adversary models, then some amount of adversarial penetration is the norm, and one common
defect in many systems today is a lack of adequate monitoring, auditing, and analysis looking
for these attacks. Part of this lack is due to cost – monitoring increases code size, validation, and
time to market, and adversely affects performance, and auditing and analysis usually require rare
expertise to be effective – but it is often due to ignorance and hubris. Most engineering teams
mistakenly suffer from the illusion that they know more about their system than attackers. This
belief is true when a technology first ships or is deployed, but our knowledge advantage over the
attacker erodes each subsequent day. Today’s hacker community is an ecosystem of highly
skilled and professionally trained experimental scientists and engineers, who can and do reverse
engineer products, but whose primary virtue is patience, as this allows them to eventually learn
more about the behavior of the systems than those who built and operate it. Knowledge
accumulates; attackers’ skills and available resources improve over time; attacks only get better,
never worse.
4.2 Potential Wi-Fi Security Threats
The following table identifies some of the potential security threats with an associated definition
of the threat.
Table 3: Definition of Potential Wi-Fi Security Threats
Potential Security Threat Definition Mitigation
1. Ad-hocs and Soft APs Ad-hoc Wi-Fi networks could be used as Clients must verify they are
honeypots to collect user credentials. connecting to the intended network.
Technical control: Wi-Fi network
(access point) authentication by the
client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g., using a VPN.
2. AP Security including Firmware and software updates can be The manufacturer of AP should have
software tampered with, potentially installing protection features that authenticate
malicious software. the software updates. Digital
signatures may be one method to
verify integrity of software and
source authentication (the signer).
However, these must be properly
verified before installation using a
secure process.
Also, the process of how the software
is quality controlled in the first place
and signed by the author must be
known and verified, or this is still a
significant residual risk. Often code-
signing keys and services are not
well protected.
Page 11 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Potential Security Threat Definition Mitigation
3. Data Interception The interception and capture of data sent Securely encrypted session protocols,
over Wi-Fi by eavesdroppers. between mutually authenticated and
authorized (intended) endpoints.
This mitigates both sniffing clear
transmissions, and man-in-the-
middle attacks.
4. Denial of Service Block access to the network. RF DoS, jamming, and de authentication
interference to contend with the Wi-Fi can be extremely hard to mitigate. If
signal to make it difficult to join the clients are controlled, protocols
network. Sending disassociation packets available to help malicious de
to try to drop people from the network. authentication.
TCP Resets may also be potential
mechanism.
5. Endpoint Attacks Numerous exploits have been published Secure quality software development,
to take advantage of buggy Wi-Fi drivers, software verification, change
using buffer overflows to execute management, and configuration
arbitrary commands control of endpoints.
6. Evil Twin Bad actor will set up an AP with an SSID Clients must verify they are
that belongs to somebody else. A user connecting to the intended network.
will connect to that SSID thinking they Technical control: Wi-Fi network
are on a trusted network when they are (access point) authentication by the
not. client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
7. Hack into Other User uses Wi-Fi AP to probe or attack the Networks must authenticate and
Systems via Wi-Fi back-end systems. Using a public Wi-Fi authorize clients, and monitor and
to launch attacks against the Internet. control their usage as needed.
8. Malware Distribution Use a public Wi-Fi network to distribute Networks must authenticate and
malware to the connected devices. authorize clients, and monitor and
control their usage as needed.
Clients must not allow installation of
unauthorized software. Firewalls - It
is possible to disallow Wi-Fi clients
from communicating with one
another, and only to the WLAN for
example.
9. Man in the Middle The Wi-Fi access point is between a Clients must verify they are
legitimate AP and the user. The other connecting to the intended network.
could be the Evil Twin threat. Technical control: Wi-Fi network
(access point) authentication by the
client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
Page 12 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Potential Security Threat Definition Mitigation
10. Misbehaving Clients Clients that form unauthorized Wi-Fi Network must have established
connections of any type, whether policy and controls. Networks should
accidentally or intentionally, put authenticate and authorize clients,
themselves and server data at risk. Some and monitor and control their usage
Wi-Fi providers still depend on end-users as needed. Clients must not allow
to connect only to known, authorized installation of unauthorized software.
wireless APs. Accidental or Firewalls - It is possible to disallow
inappropriate Wi-Fi connections have Wi-Fi clients from communicating
never been easier. with one another, and only to the
WLAN for example.
11. Misconfigured APs Any configuration on AP that leaves Network must have established
network open to security vulnerabilities. policy and controls. Secure change
For example, AP on public network that controls and configuration
allows user to user communications. management.
This also includes using obsolete PKI trust lists must be very secure
protocols. For example, (WEP, SSL) from unauthorized changes. All
instead of WPA2, and TLS v 1.2. Also, certificates in the trust chains should
still relying on obsolete cryptographic use (at minimum) RSA 2048 bit
algorithms (MD5, SHA-1) instead of keys, and SHA-256 message digests.
SHA-256. These are specifically mentioned as
they are on-going problems. ECC
and other algorithms are newer and
highly recommended as well.
12. Multiple Domain Issue For example, devices are nomadic and Clients must verify they are
different networks could have the same connecting to the intended network.
SSID. This could be an inadvertent Technical control: Wi-Fi network
duplication of an SSID. (access point) authentication by the
client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
13. Misuse of Wi-Fi SSID naming could be a form of Network must have established
networks for messaging to the users. E.g., the SSID policy and controls. Networks should
threatening or could be something like “bomb attack”. authenticate and authorize clients,
intimidation reasons This may be moved to a different part of and monitor and control their usage
the report. as needed. Clients must not allow
installation of unauthorized software.
Firewalls - It is possible to disallow
Wi-Fi clients from communicating
with one another, and only to the
WLAN for example.
14. Privacy To get PIN code to access AP, AP
prompts for User Name, email, etc. and
user does not know how this information
will be used. They could also prompt for
“like” on Facebook page to get the user’s
social profile. If multiple APs, the APs
could track the user location by signal
strength for marketing and advertise
purposes.
Page 13 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Potential Security Threat Definition Mitigation
15. Rogue APs Rogue APs may be defined as any Wi-Fi Clients must verify they are
radio transmitter detected within the connecting to the intended network.
network operator's intentional coverage Technical control: Wi-Fi network
area that is not part of the network (access point) authentication by the
operator's system. Rogue APs may client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
include benign devices making legitimate authenticated nor trusted, clients
use of the Wi-Fi spectrum by third parties must connect through to a known
as well as malicious or harmful trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
transmitters.
16. Malicious Rogue APs Malicious Rogue APs are Wi-Fi radio Clients must verify they are
transmitters operating within the network connecting to the intended network.
operator's intentional coverage area Technical control: Wi-Fi network
causing disruption to legitimate (access point) authentication by the
transmissions. Malicious Rogue APs may client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
cause deliberate disruption through attack authenticated nor trusted, clients
vectors defined in this table such as "Evil must connect through to a known
Twin," "Denial of Service," "Man-in-the- trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
Middle," etc. or may include
misconfigured access points.
17. Rogue APs on LAN Unauthorized Wi-Fi radio transmitter Network must have established
connected to the network operator's wired policy and controls. Networks should
infrastructure. This may provide authenticate and authorize clients,
unauthorized access onto the network and monitor and control their usage
operator's infrastructure both allowing as needed. Clients must not allow
possible attackers access to otherwise installation of unauthorized software.
secure resources, or allowing Firewalls - It is possible to disallow
unauthorized distribution of the network Wi-Fi clients from communicating
operator's services. with one another, and only to the
WLAN for example.
Clients must verify they are
connecting to the intended network.
Technical control: Wi-Fi network
(access point) authentication by the
client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
18. Wireless Intruders Malicious Wi-Fi clients operating in or Network must have established
near the airspace of a business. policy and controls. Networks should
authenticate and authorize clients,
and monitor and control their usage
as needed. Clients must not allow
installation of unauthorized software.
Firewalls - It is possible to disallow
Wi-Fi clients from communicating
with one another, and only to the
WLAN for example.
Page 14 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Potential Security Threat Definition Mitigation
19. Wireless Phishing Hackers continue to develop new Clients must verify they are
techniques to phish Wi-Fi users. One connecting to the intended network.
technique is to modify the Wi-Fi client Technical control: Wi-Fi network
web browser caches to redirect the clients (access point) authentication by the
to phishing sites. client. If the Wi-Fi network is not
authenticated nor trusted, clients
must connect through to a known
trusted endpoint, e.g. using a VPN.
Clients must have some form of
configuration control.
4.3 Example Use Cases & Threats
This section contains the descriptions of some example Use Cases and Wi-Fi security threats
facing Wi-Fi network operators and Wi-Fi users. The two Use Cases described in this section
were included due to their unique characteristics relative to Wi-Fi security.
4.3.1 Hotel Wi-Fi Network Use Case
4.3.1.1 High Level Description
The hotel Wi-Fi usage is distinguished by its classes of users and the types of data each
exchanges over the network. Among the classes of users for this usage are
1. Hotel guests, i.e., those who rent hotel rooms and who use Wi-Fi as a local attachment
point to the Internet to exchange personal data.
2. Conference and workshop attendees, who use a hotel’s conferencing facilities and
likewise use Wi-Fi to exchange personal data.
3. Casual or transient visitors to a hotel’s lobby, restaurants, shops, and the like, but who
otherwise maintain no relationship with the hotel, who also use Wi-Fi for personal
reasons.
4. Hotel staff, who operate and maintain the hotel per se and serve the needs of the hotel’s
patrons. There is a range of different kinds of data exchanged by this category of users:
business and customer data, information about the hotel supplies, telemetry on the
hotel’s physical plant, training, and the hotel staff’s personal data.
5. The hotel’s IT staff, who are charged with operating and maintaining the hotel’s network
and computing infrastructure, who configure the Wi-Fi network, and who collect and
analyze network data.
6. Public safety personnel, such as fire and rescue, emergency medical, police, and the like,
who access the network when their intervention is required.
7. A user may appear in different categories serially through time or simultaneously. An
example of the former is someone who visits the hotel’s restaurant on one occasion and
then rents a room as a guest later. An example of the latter is a member of the hotel’s
housekeeping staff, who may aid remote IT personnel to install new equipment or
trouble-shoot network failures.
Page 15 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
4.3.1.2 Potential Security Threats
If the user classes and their data distinguish this usage from others, then this suggests there are
several unique aspects to the hotel Wi-Fi case:
a. How users are registered – i.e., how they obtain log-in credentials – deregistered, and
how the various user accounts are managed;
b. How the different classes of users and their data are isolated from one another; and
c. How access is prioritized among the different classes.
d. What kind of physical access attackers have to computing devices and infrastructure.
e. Civil libertarian and business threats.
4.3.1.3 User account management
It is desirable to provide an economical and feasible mechanism for addressing the registration
and user management for the transient visitor class of users. Without account management, it is
impossible to mitigate the confidentiality and integrity threats against this category of users and
devices. One such effort to address user account management is Wi-Fi CERTIFIED PasspointTM
from Wi-Fi Alliance®.
4.3.2 Convention Center/Public Venue Wi-Fi Network Use Case
4.3.2.1 High Level Description
The convention center Wi-Fi usage is distinguished by its classes of users and the types of data
each exchanges over the network. It should be noted that in convention centers, events often
overlap and occur simultaneously in different sections of the facility. Also, events range in
purpose from business to business (industry buyers and sellers on a tradeshow), business to
consumer (a local auto show in which attendees potentially purchase a car from a local car
dealer), social events (a community fundraising dinner and auction), community event
(volleyball tourney or cheerleading competition) and many more. Among the classes of users for
this usage are
1. Event planners or show management who sponsor the event and execute a license
agreement with the convention center to license meeting rooms and/or exhibition space.
Event planners often provide wireless services to attendees and exhibitors as both a
convenience and to facilitate business demonstrations and other transactions between the
attendees and exhibitors.
2. Event attendees, i.e., those who attend events, conferences or tradeshows for educational,
social and/or business purposes, who use Wi-Fi as a local attachment point to the Internet
for personal use or as part of the conference to facilitate business or learning
opportunities.
3. Exhibitors who license space on the tradeshow floor from the show manager who erect
an exhibit booth for as small as 100 square feet and as much as 25,000 square feet to
demonstrate products to attendees. Exhibiting customers utilize the wireless network to
demonstrate products, execute financial transactions with attendees (buyers), enable
Page 16 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
VPN services, amongst other needs.
4. Casual or transient visitors to a convention center’s lobby, restaurants, shops, and the
like, but who otherwise maintain no relationship with the hotel, who also use Wi-Fi for
personal reasons.
5. Convention center staff or permanent service companies who operate and maintain the
convention center per se and serve the needs of the convention center’s patrons.
Convention venues often outsource key services to third party vendors. These permanent
service companies include food service/catering companies, business center services,
technology services providers, security services, electrical services, audio visual
providers, etc. There is a range of different kinds of data exchanged by this category of
users: business and customer data, credit card transactions, shipping services, telemetry
on the convention center’s physical plant, training, and the convention center staff’s
personal data.
6. Temporary service companies contracted by the event planner to set up and manage
services for the event. These services include a general service contractor (GSC) who
organizes the setup up, move in and tear down of tradeshow and conference. The GSC
lays out the tradeshow floor plan of exhibit booths, receives all exhibitor freight,
schedules the tradeshow floor setup, sets up exhibit booths, rents furniture and carpet to
booths, etc. Additional contractors hired by the event planner will provides electrical
services, rigging, registration services, audio visual services, etc. Additionally, large
exhibitors who regularly participate in major tradeshows hire their own exhibit setup
company to erect their exhibit. All these service companies utilize Wi-Fi to manage the
scheduling process of freight. delivery, order processing, labor management, billing
services, amongst others to ensure the show opens on time. The convention center’s IT
staff or third party service provider, who are charged with operating and maintaining the
convention center’s network and computing infrastructure, who uniquely configure the
Wi-Fi network for each event, and who collect and analyze network data.
7. Public safety personnel, such as fire and rescue, emergency medical, police, and the like,
who access the network when their intervention is required.
A user may appear in different categories serially through time or simultaneously. An example
of the former is someone who visits the convention center’s restaurant on one occasion and then
utilizes the business center to ship materials back to their home office at the end of the show. An
example of the latter is a member of the convention center’s IT staff may assist a temporary
audio visual provider with an internet drop to facilitate a speaker’s presentation download for the
keynote speech.
4.3.2.2 Potential Security Threats
Convention Centers and large public venues suffer from many, if not all, of the same threats
previously described in this document. The challenges outlined below are particularly
troublesome for large venues due to their application and potential scope and scale.
a. Spectrum Management – Management of the unlicensed spectrum.
b. Malicious Rogue APs – Malicious actors trying to spoof legitimate Wi-Fi networks in
order to carry out attacks or identity theft described previously in this document, or
Page 17 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
denial of service attacks.
c. Reconfiguration of Floor Space – The constant and ever evolving network design.
d. Time – Time to detect and mitigate threats in large public venues.
4.3.2.3 Spectrum Management
Spectrum management is particularly challenging in convention centers due to the size, density,
and public nature of the venue. Spectrum planning in dense environments such as convention
centers must be meticulously managed in order to maximize efficient usage of the limited RF
spectrum given to Wi-Fi. Unlike an office environment where the RF environment remains
relatively static, the RF environment inside a convention center can be extremely volatile,
varying drastically day to day. At any time, actors both bad and good bring devices without
notice into the facility that operate in the 2.4Ghz and 5Ghz unlicensed spectrum potentially
throwing an otherwise well managed RF environment into disarray.
The sheer size and density of a convention center additionally complicates spectrum
management in such a volatile environment only to further highlight the security threat. IT teams
may not be able to physically reach impacted areas of a venue in a timely manner in order to
identify the device or devices affecting network operations. Since many of the transmitters
brought into the facility are mobile, an IT team member may arrive at a location only to find the
transmitter has moved to a different part of the facility. Bad actors could hide the offending
device in hard to reach areas or one of the many cavernous areas of the building. IT teams,
through policy and technological means, need to have ways to quickly identify, locate, and
mitigate these threats to operations. Ultimately, the challenge is not whether the device is
authorized or maliciously placed, it is controlling the airspace inside the venue to address
threats.
4.3.2.4 Misconfigured or Malfunctioning Rogue APs
In high density environments such as convention centers, it is imperative to minimize the
coverage cell and channel bandwidth of each transmitter to cover only what is necessary due to
the limited resource that is the ISM and UNII bands allotted for Wi-Fi.
Many of the transmitters brought into the facility by visitors are devices that are designed for
home or small office use. As such their default configurations, which are rarely modified, are
typically greedy for RF space set to maximize coverage area usually with maximum allowed
ERP, as well as dominate the largest RF footprint possible given the device’s supported
standards (80MHz with 802.11ac). These greedy default settings greatly impede network
operations disrupting an overwhelmingly large number of neighboring networks and access
points in a wide area (sometimes as more than 100,000 square feet) all for the purpose of
covering what is typically only a 100 to 200 square foot exhibit space.
Low grade or malfunctioning Wi-Fi access points may also disrupt services in a wide area in a
variety of ways of which could be intentional or unintentional. Regardless of intent,
malfunctioning access points can negatively impact network operations in high density
environments by needlessly causing excessive retransmissions. Transmissions being slightly
off-channel, inverted I & Q planes of a signal, failure to properly validate Clear Channel
Assessment (CCA) prior to transmission all can be the effect of a low grade or malfunctioning
access point and can cause Collision Avoidance (CA) protection mechanisms of normally
Page 18 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
operating systems to fail, thus causing excessive retransmissions. Once this begins to happen in
a crowded environment, the effect can snowball since the reaction to excessive retransmissions
in most chipset drivers is to fall back to a lower data rate. Since lower data rates will take more
air-time to transmit the same data, the chances of collisions due to the same malfunctioning
access points becomes greater, thus causing even more retries. This can continue until every
device is communicating at the lowest possible data rate and duty cycle reaches 100%,
effectively jamming the channel.
Facility operations that rely on the in-building Wi-Fi network to carry critical systems’ data may
become intermittent or unreliable due to the added competition for the spectrum from
unnecessarily greedy or malfunctioning devices. As more of the venue operations begin to rely
on Wi-Fi connected systems for things such as point of sale systems, security cameras, HVAC,
lighting controls, etc., the security implications of spectrum management become more
prevalent.
Convention Center IT teams must be informed of, and have the discretion to coordinate fair and
reasonable use of devices entering the facility to ensure all network operations continue to
function properly. The unintended consequences of allowing undisclosed Personal Area
Networks (PAN), or other transmitters to compete for the allocated spectrum without convention
center IT staff awareness could result in a critical breakdown of key systems as well as those
undisclosed PANs themselves.
4.3.2.5 Malicious Rogue APs
Due to size and public nature of the convention center environment, these facilities see vast
numbers of guests from various classes as previously described. Guests to these facilities rely
on the convention center management to provide a safe environment to stay connected whether
via the facility provided Wi-Fi or their own hotspot. Given the large volumes of Wi-Fi client
devices traversing the building, and highly dynamic environment of a convention center, these
guests are particularly vulnerable to the range of identity theft attack vectors such as man-in-the-
middle, evil twin, spoofing, etc. previously described. Guests commonly seek the building
Wi-Fi as a reputable source for connectivity, however an attacker may easily conceal a rogue AP
in a backpack spoofing a legitimate SSID such as the building Wi-Fi or responding for any SSID
client devices are searching for, luring victims onto their device leaving the victim’s personal
and transactional data vulnerable. Wireless network users have little to go on as to whether the
operator is legitimate or a bad actor.
4.3.2.6 Time to Mitigate Impact of Rogue APs
As described earlier in this document, Rogue APs may pose a danger to the public at large.
While spectrum management affects the operation of authorized transmitters by possibly
disrupting or degrading their signals, Rogue APs in large public venues can both have the same
effect as being a problematic transmitter in the 2.4Ghz or 5Ghz spectrum, but also they can be
configured to fool the unsuspecting public into believing they are a legitimate part of the
authorized wireless network infrastructure. While modern WLAN controllers can help identify
Rogue APs, what they cannot do is determine the intent of the individual or group that setup the
Rogue networks in the first place. To determine intent, Convention Center IT staff must be
dispatched to the approximate location of where the Rogue AP was seen. Then they must
proceed to play detective looking for the offending device, which in itself can cause a delay.
Page 19 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
While an enterprise grade access point tends to be a larger device and harder to conceal, a Rogue
AP’s profile does not need to meet the typical footprint of an enterprise AP. It could be
something as small as a smartphone in someone’s pocket, a MiFi in a backpack or other type of
bag, or just a PC. Weeding through an event investigating both the attendee and exhibitor
asking to see their personal belongings is socially awkward and essentially turning IT staff into
the wireless police and at best a gray area. Furthermore, before the investigation even begins,
the staff member has to travel to the approximated location of the Rogue AP. It could be a
significant amount of time before the staff member reaches the location due to several factors.
First, the size of a venue may prohibit the ability for IT teams to get to an area of the building
quickly. Then there’s navigating a crowded facility which also slows the process. Meanwhile,
every minute an unsuspecting user is connected to a malicious Rogue AP, they run the risk of
having their personal information stolen. Without the aid of technology, along with policy,
stopping these devices in large venues by manpower alone is prohibitive. Even under the best of
conditions, as a resource, IT staff members need to prioritize between making sure the network
is functioning as it should be or hunting down Rogues APs.
5 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
5.1 Analysis & Findings
5.1.1 Best Practice: Common Sense Rules for Public Venues
Wi-Fi services are vulnerable to interference from wireless devices such as wireless routers,
wireless cameras, cellular phones, and personal hotspots. These issues can be particularly acute
in public venues, such as convention centers, due to the user activity in congested areas, limited
wireless spectrum, and the closed space of the exhibit halls. Excessive wireless interference in
the exhibit halls, meeting rooms and auditoriums may degrade the ability of exhibitors to
demonstrate their products, prevent sales representatives from placing orders, block keynote
addresses being live streamed, and impede other activities. In order to maintain a stable and
secure wireless environment that minimizes interference through cooperation, coordination and
good wireless policies, the convention and meetings industry has adopted the Common Sense
Rules delineated below.
1. Be considerate of others.
The wireless network has finite resources, so more users will degrade the wireless experience for
everyone. Many visitors do not realize that their personal devices are turned on in a manner that
degrades the wireless network. We ask that all visitors be considerate of the needs of the
exhibitors, speakers and their fellow attendees. Upon entering the Convention Center, everyone
is requested to voluntarily turn-off the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth broadcasting features (“personal
hotspot”) of their wireless cameras, cellular phones, gaming devices and other portable wireless
devices. By voluntarily disabling these features, each visitor will enhance the wireless
experience for the entire community in the Convention Center.
Page 20 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Security Benefit
 Leaving Wi-Fi or Bluetooth radios on in a public environment can lead to several
security risks:
o Devices could attach to Wi-Fi networks without the user’s knowledge, leaving
the device vulnerable to attack without the owner’s knowledge;
o While not actively connected to a Wi-Fi network, common Wi-Fi chipsets
continuously probe a list of Wi-Fi networks the device has previously
connected to. These probes are broadcast for all within transmission radius to
receive in clear text. While seemingly innocuous, a collection of these
network names can quickly build up a profile for a would be attacker. In
many cases these can divulge sensitive personal information from which an
attacker could glean a home address via public Wi-Fi mapping sites. These
probes also give would be attackers a list of networks they can spoof in order
to compromise the probing system by tricking it to automatically connect.
o Bluetooth radios left on are vulnerable to attackers with devices designed to
attach to Bluetooth radios. There have been numerous public reports of
attackers stealing data from highly visible members of the public.
(http://www.nbc12.com/story/22152269/bluebugging-hackers-target-
bluetooth)
 These security risks become particularly enhanced in crowded large public venues
due to the additional shroud of anonymity it provides would be attackers.
2. Don't overpower your neighbors.
Exhibit halls, meeting rooms, and auditoriums in the Convention Center are closed spaces where
high-power wireless devices may interfere with many other wireless users. This is unfair to your
neighbors and may disrupt the event. For the convenience of your fellow attendees, a wireless
device that requires a continuous connection to an electric outlet (or a battery independent of the
wireless device) for its operation may neither be utilized nor plugged into an electrical outlet. At
the discretion of the Convention Center or their designated representatives, the operator of such
device will be required to unplug and remove the device from the Convention Center. Failure to
unplug the device within 30 minutes of notification may jeopardize the wireless network for
fellow attendees and is a license violation by the operator. In the event of such violation the
Convention Center may require the operator of the offending device to discontinue its use for the
remainder of the event and/or to undertake a wireless engineering & coordination plan for the
neighboring wireless devices and bill the operator of the offending device the appropriate
charges. If neither option is adhered to, the Convention Center may require the operator to leave
the Convention Center.
Page 21 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Security Benefit
 Leaving Wi-Fi signal strength high leaves Access Points and Wireless networks
vulnerable to attack from far distances. Wi-Fi signal strength set appropriately to
cover only the intended area would require an attacker to be in much closer proximity
to the intended target, and therefore more easily detected.
 There is a common misconception among lay people that as long as your signal is
stronger than your neighbors’, your network will be preferred. This misconception
can lead to the effects snowballing with neighbors attempting to compete, driving
transmit power of each other higher until all are transmitting at the maximum
allowed. More is not better in this case. Adequate transmit power to cover the
intended area protects both the operator’s network as well as a misinformed neighbor
that attempts to compete for signal strength.
3. One user. One channel. Please.
For many years, Wi-Fi technology only allowed for access to one channel at a time. The latest
Wi-Fi protocols (such as 802.11ac) allow users to combine or bond multiple channels. Doing so,
however, may significantly degrade your neighbors’ ability to use the common wireless
network. For the benefit of the entire wireless community in the Convention Center, please do
not hog the spectrum through channel bonding or other techniques.
Security Benefit
 Channel bonding can drive up channel utilization, creating degraded connection
quality for all users of the spectrum within transmission range. This degraded quality
can lead the lay person to respond by increasing transmit power further exacerbating
the problem as well as weakening overall security as noted in the previous section.
4. Acceptable use makes it fair for all.
Please be considerate and share the wireless spectrum and bandwidth with your fellow attendees
and exhibitors. Please do not use peer-to-peer traffic applications (such as Bit Torrent) nor
actively scan the wireless network because these practices consume a disproportionately large
amount of bandwidth and wireless network resources.
Security Benefit
 Scanning networks is the first step in an attack on a wireless network. If we know
scanning should not be taking place, and detect it, action can be taken to locate the
potential threat. Without banning scanning, we would be left without a way to
determine who is a threat and who is not.
5.1.2 Best Practices to Deal with Rogue Access Points
For enterprise Wi-Fi networks, it is a good practice to prevent, detect, locate and eliminate rogue
access points. On the other hand, it is a good idea to exercise caution understanding that some
rogue access points may elude detection, or it takes time to detect and eliminate rogue access
Page 22 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
points.
1. Many rogue access points are established by employees for convenience. An enterprise
should establish security policies that mandate conformance with effective security
policies and coordination with the IT organization before installing an access point. All
employees should know the security policies and the risks of not following the policies.
2. Deploy tools that can detect and eliminate rogue access points. Depending on the
network and budget, different tools may be used. Large enterprise networks may use
Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (WIPS) for full-time air surveillance. Ideally, the
WIPS can be combined with management tools to locate and eliminate rogue APs, or
manage switches so that suspicious ports, once identified, can be closed immediately.
Small businesses that have more budget constraints can use periodic air surveillance
(which is less effective but can still detect certain rogue access points), or use managed
WIPS provided by the service providers (when such services are available). In addition,
stand-alone host WIPS programs can be installed on client devices to monitor air
activities on client devices.
3. Critical resources in the enterprise network should only be allowed to be accessed
through encrypted channels such as HTTPS or VPNs. Even when a rogue AP is not
detected and eliminated timely, data encryption can help to protect the data.
For public Wi-Fi networks that are open networks or Wi-Fi networks that are created for
temporary usages (e.g., in convention centers), detecting and eliminating rogue APs may not be
practical. In such networks, consumers should understand the risks of using such networks, and
exercise caution. Avoid using such networks for any service that may involve sensitive
information (username, password) unless absolutely necessary. The following are suggested
practices for dealing with rogue APs in such networks.
1. Manage Wi-Fi adapters explicitly. Turn off Wi-Fi adaptors by default. Turn it on
manually when needed to connect to a Wi-Fi network. Disable automatic connection to a
list of recorded Wi-Fi networks.
2. Use a local firewall on client device. It can prevent malware from infecting devices and
can stop data interception attempts by blocking suspicious traffic.
3. Use a VPN. Some browsers offer free secure VPN services. Use such VPN services or
VPN services provided by the enterprise IT service. Enterprise should enforce that
remote access to enterprise network resources need to be through VPNs (or HTTPS).
The above does not consider the situation where a personal device purposely emulates an access
point to allow new Wi-Fi services, e.g., the wireless connection between a laptop and a
conference room projector. The above usage essentially constitutes rogue access points
intentionally injected into an enterprise’s IT infrastructure since the laptops that emulate access
points are not deployed and managed by the IT. While the usage may have legitimate purposes,
it can lead to security attacks. How to support the intended functionalities while maintaining the
security of the network is still an open problem. One partial solution might be to configure the
devices (e.g., projectors) that need to connect to personal devices to demand that security is
enabled, e.g., using a password projected with the other set-up help, and they will not be
associated unless the laptop runs the appropriate security. However, this solution does not
address the problem when a personal device is purposely set up as a genuine rogue access point.
It seems like the technology can only address part of the problem. We need to convince the users
Page 23 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
that they are responsible to limit connections within the enterprise’s environment. In addition,
they are responsible to use access points that can demonstrate that they have been secured by
running WPA2 with a company configured password.
5.1.3 Best Practices from CSRIC Working Group 2A
The following are the Wi-Fi best practices from the CSRIC Working Group 2A final report1:
Number Priority Description
9-8- Critical Ad-hoc Wi-Fi Policies: Service Providers and Network Operators should
8600 implement policies and practices that prohibit ad-hoc wireless networks.
An ad-hoc wireless network is a peer-to-peer style network connecting
multiple computers with no core infrastructure. They are not considered
secure and are commonly associated with malicious activity.
9-8- Critical Wi-Fi Policies: Service Providers and Network Operators should
8601 establish policies to ensure only authorized wireless devices approved by
the network managing body or network security are allowed on the
network. Unauthorized devices should be strictly forbidden.
9-8- Critical Wi-Fi Standards: Service Providers and Network Operators, should
8602 implement applicable industry standards for wireless authentication,
authorization, and encryption (e.g. WPA2 should be considered a
minimum over WEP which is no longer considered secure).
9-8- Critical Wi-Fi Standards: Service Providers and Network Operators should
8603 implement applicable industry standards to ensure all devices on the
Wireless LAN (WLAN) network enforce network security policy
requirements.
9-8- Highly Wi-Fi Intrusion Prevention/Detection: Network Operators should
8604 Important consider installation of a Wireless Intrusion System at all locations to
detect the presence of unauthorized wireless systems. At a minimum,
routine audits must be undertaken at all sites to identify unauthorized
wireless systems.
9-8- Important Wi-Fi Signal Strength: Service Providers and Network Operators should
8605 minimize wireless signal strength exposure outside of needed coverage
area.
1 Available at https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/WG2A-Cyber-Security-Best-Practices-
Final-Report.pdf
Page 24 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
5.1.4 Best Practices from Cisco
The following are Wi-Fi best practices from Cisco:
Enterprise Guest
Enterprise Networks - Enterprise Guest Enterprise Networks Enterprise
Networks - Web Networks - - Networks -
Open Access & No Authentication Authentication and Encryption & No Authentication with
Network Type Encryption without Encryption Encryption Authentication Encryption
Access Type Open to anyone, Sponsored Guest User utilizing a Consumer devices on Enterprise User
public access Service Provider Hot enterprise network &
Spot 2.0 service IoT
Network Use Serving the public, Serving the public, Retail, convention Enterprise devices Enterprise devices or
i.e., convention i.e., convention centers, Service (printers/sensors/video approved BYOD
centers, retail, some centers, retail, Provider Wi-Fi cameras, building
municipal WiFi enterprise allowing automation,
contractor/visitor “headless” devices
access that do not permit data
entry, such as sensors)
Authentication None Web Authentication 802.1x mutual MAC Address 802.1x with either
authentication with Registration/ certificate or
Certificates Authentication with username/pass-word
Pre-Shared Key (PSK) authentication
Encryption None None WPA2-Enterprise WPA2-Personal AES WPA-2 Enterprise
AES Encryption Encryption AES Encryption
Wireless End User High (allowing Medium-High Low Medium Low
Threat Level to anyone and
Clients and the anything)
Users are Users are Devices, not users, are Users are
Network
Authenticated via a authenticated via authenticated via authenticated via
No encryption or Web page – but no mutual MAC address – mutual
authentication results encryption is used. authentication to the encryption is provided authentication to the
in complete lack of Enterprise controls Service Provider with Pre-Shared Keys. Enterprise with
control of who is on access to the network with x.509 certificate MAC Addresses are x.509 certificate or
the network and – but not the privacy and data is encrypted easily spoofed and Username/Pass-word
allows others to of the data being providing WPA2-PSK has and data is encrypted
intercept all traffic transmitted authentication and known vulnerabilities providing
from unsuspecting confidentiality with weak Pre-shared authentication and
clients Keys. confidentiality
Enterprise Configure Configure Configure Configure Configure
Network Operator administrator access administrator access administrator access administrator access – administrator access
Recommendations – passwords, – passwords, – passwords, passwords, encryption – passwords,
encryption of encryption of encryption of of communications to encryption of
communications to communications to communications to the network, login communications to
the network, login the network, login the network, login history; lock login the network, login
history; lock login history; lock login history; lock login after period of time; history; lock login
after period of time; after period of time; after period of time; HTTPS after period of time;
HTTPS HTTPS HTTPS HTTPS
Network Security Network Security Network Security Network Security Network Security
assessments – assessments – assessments – assessments – assessments –
frequency & scope frequency & scope frequency & scope frequency & scope frequency & scope
WPA2 with WPA2-PSK with WPA2 with EPOL/
EPOL/802.1X – significantly 802.1X – strong
strong encryption long/entropy pre-share encryption and
and generation of keys. generation of session
session keys; keys; authentication
authentication at the at the network layer;
Note – that once the
network layer; tamper detection
pre-shared key is
tamper detection (Message Integrity
given out it is
(Message Integrity Check)
compromised.
Check)
Limit wireless Limit client access Limit wireless Limit wireless session Limit wireless
session time to time to prevent users session time to force time to force fresh session time to force
prevent users from from “camping” fresh session session encryption fresh session
“camping” encryption keys to be keys to be generated encryption keys to be
generated generated
Page 25 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Enterprise Guest
Enterprise Networks - Enterprise Guest Enterprise Networks Enterprise
Networks - Web Networks - - Networks -
Open Access & No Authentication Authentication and Encryption & No Authentication with
Network Type Encryption without Encryption Encryption Authentication Encryption
Enterprise If allowing complete Use network Use network Use network
Network Operator and open access – segmentation segmentation segmentation
Recommendations separate WLAN techniques (virtual techniques (virtual techniques (virtual
from the rest of LAN, CAPWAP, LAN, CAPWAP, LAN, CAPWAP,
corporate GRE, MPLS, VRF) GRE, MPLS, VRF) GRE, MPLS, VRF) to
infrastructure if to tunneling traffic to to tunneling traffic to provide separation of
possible DMZ for this SSID DMZ for this SSID this lower security
SSID from the rest of
the enterprise network
Ensure clients and Ensure clients and
infrastructure infrastructure
devices have valid devices have valid
certificates (CRL or certificates
OCSP) (CRL or OCSP)
Rate limit users to Rate limit users to Rate limit users to
prevent consuming prevent consuming prevent consuming
excessive bandwidth excessive bandwidth excessive bandwidth
(avoid DoS attack)
When two devices When two devices When two devices
are connected to the are connected to the are connected to the
infrastructure, data infrastructure, data infrastructure, data
should transit the should transit the should transit the
infrastructure – not infrastructure – not infrastructure – not
travel peer to peer travel peer to peer travel peer to peer
(no impact to (no impact to (no impact to
personal hot spot) personal hot spot) personal hot spot)
Enterprise Software updates to include security patches
Network Operator
Automated management tools to assess normal operations & detect threats; log security events
Recommendations
Automated tools to direct network to change channels to avoid threat
Intrusion protection technology – best practice is policy guidance to administrator
Access Points: Physical security should be maintained
Design of radio footprint should cover intended area only
5.2 Recommendations
5.2.1 Deauthentication
RECOMMENDATION: The FCC should resolve the policy and legal issues regarding the ability
of enterprise customers or network operators to use deauthentication to protect Wi-Fi users from
legitimate cybersecurity threats.
However, the specific actions that a Wi-Fi operator can take to protect consumers are unclear. For
example, it should be permissible for a network operator to use deauthentication, which is part of
the IEEE 802.11 standard, to ensure network security, such as to shut down access point spoofing
or other cyberattacks. The FCC’s Part 15 rules do not preclude such use, and former FCC
Chairman Tom Wheeler acknowledged in a letter to Congress that deauthentication has a
“legitimate use.” Letter from Tom Wheeler, Chairman, FCC, to Senator Ron Johnson, Chairman,
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, at 2 (June 29, 2015).
Page 26 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Regardless, the FCC’s reading of Section 333 appears limited to the use of deauthentication “to
intentionally disrupt[] the lawful operation of neighboring Wi-Fi networks.”2 Unfortunately, the
FCC has not addressed previously the use of deauthentication for cybersecurity purposes. Thus, it
remains unclear whether a person using a Wi-Fi network to engage in access point spoofing or to
launch a cybersecurity attack would be engaged in “unlawful” use and against which
deauthentication would be permitted to stop.
Neither the Commission’s cybersecurity goals nor the public interest are well served by leaving
Wi-Fi operators to speculate about the specific actions they can or should take to protect
consumers from harm. Accordingly, the FCC should complete a rulemaking or other
administrative proceeding to provide guidance to network operators regarding the use of
deauthentication to protect Wi-Fi users from cybersecurity threats.
Situation in which the use of deauthentication support enhanced security on Wi-Fi networks:
Example: In the case of a large venue (convention center, large enterprise, military base,
stadium, airport, etc.), in which a breach has been detected and confirmed through IPS,
Monitoring or other best practice technique. However, due to the size of the venue it
will take some time to physically get to where the attack is sourced from. Think of the
Orange County Convention Center in Orlando with a 7 million square foot campus, in
two physically separate buildings. IT support staff is housed literally a mile from
sections of the North/South building, across a public street. If during the
Interservice/Industry Training, Simulation and Education Conference (I/ITSEC) event
for military computer modeling and simulation, the FBI cyber team determines that a
local attack has been launched, deauthentication could stop the attacker until assets can
be put in place to assess and resolve the issue.
The threat of spoofed deauthentication and other management plane attacks exists in a Wi-Fi
network, which makes it possible for an attacker to create a denial of service attack against Wi-
Fi clients. Technology exists in the form of 802.11w to mitigate those attacks, but it’s important
to keep in mind that not all clients support 802.11w. While the working group recommends the
use of 802.11w, the working group does not recommend requiring it for clients to join a
network. Also, even with 802.11w enabled, radio-level jamming can still cause denial of service
attacks.
5.2.2 Mutual Authentication (network and clients)
Overview
It is highly recommended that the businesses provide for registration of clients and enforce
mutual authentication when joining the network. After mutual authentication we assume that
the network connection will also be encrypted. These recommendations are to ensure the clients
have a secure experience, and to mitigate threats such as evil-twin and man-in-the-middle
attacks that can compromise data on the wireless network.
Ideally, a business or enterprise can control their client configuration and provide true mutual
2 For instance, the FCC Enforcement Bureau has alleged and a divided FCC found in 2015 that
the use of deauthentication violates 47 U.S.C. § 333. See In re M.C Dean, Inc., Notice of
Apparent Liability for Forfeiture, FCC 15-146 (rel. Nov. 2, 2015) (Commissioners Pai and
O’Rielly dissenting and issuing separate statements), response pending (filed Dec. 1, 2015).
Page 27 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
authentication of both clients and server using x.509 certificates. However, in our typical use
case, the business (Wi-Fi network provider) is expecting various temporary customers (clients)
to connect to their network. The service might be provided for a one-time use, but more likely
has a set duration - a conference, a hotel stay or a single airline flight. Thus, the network
provider may provide for certificate based authentication, and require clients use a temporary
user-id and password.
To be sure, the client should know to connect securely to their bank or other location before
conducting sensitive business. In this case, the security of the underlying network connection
may not matter. However, this recommendation is for those businesses and service providers
that want to ensure customers can authenticate the Wi-Fi network itself, and establish a
relatively trusted and secure connection. Corporate and tech savvy consumers know a Wi-Fi
network is not trustworthy if it cannot be authenticated. They know to connect through to a
known service, such as their own VPN or other known and trusted endpoint on the Internet,
before conducting business or sending any sensitive data. Presuming this VPN is itself secure,
mutually authenticated, and the data stream is encrypted, the Evil Twin threat is virtually
eliminated. General consumers may not understand these factors, and they expect the basic Wi-
Fi network to be “secure”.
Even if a Wi-Fi provider dispels legal liability the business contracting for or hosting this service
may still have business risk. Not the least of which is to their reputation. It should be important
to the business to ensure the clients have a secure experience, and that their credit card data is
not at risk of fraudulent access points. But also, the network provider should have some basic
tracking of the clients and devices that do join their network.
Recommendation
The CSRIC Working Group 9 recommends that the business or wireless network provider
implement an authenticatable network using an X.509 certified network identity or SIM cards,
and also a more robust registration method for short-term clients. This registration process has
two objectives, both of which are necessary to be able to provide for mutual authentication:
1. Provide a unique temporary user id and password to each client. The client understands
this identifies them exclusively when they join the network, and that activity may be
logged, and attributable to them.
2. Provide the details of the network authentication credentials and ways for the client to
manually verify them. In general, a properly configured wireless supplicant would reject
fraudulent (non-trusted) certificates. But general consumer devices may be
misconfigured, or they may click through and accept “untrusted” certificates anyway.
Worse a fraudulent access point already has obtained a seemingly legitimate certificate
from less-then-trustworthy certificate authorities, that do not provide proper vetting
before issuing certificates. The list of “built-in” known certificate authorities is too big
and growing on most consumer devices.
Today, network providers could provide printed details of their network setup, the keys
and the certificate authority in use, along with ways to further verify these when the
client connects.
Page 28 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Unfortunately step two above is quite awkward using today’s technology. Further, most
consumers don’t want to deal with manual verification, and many will not be able to do so, even
if enough detail was provided to them. The client may not understand that failure to properly
validate and verify the network authenticity increases their vulnerability to attacks carried out
via fraudulent and malicious access points.
Future Technology
The CSRIC Working Group 9 recommend that a method and technology be developed that
allows a client, during their registration to use a wireless network, be able to securely obtain and
“pin” specific network authentication keys in their client device(s). This better protects the
client from third-party trust store problems. The wireless supplicant could therefore alert on
illegitimate network credentials, and not allow connection, thus protecting the clients. If a
bypass is allowed, the client must be made to accept this.
Page 29 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Appendix A: Suggested Background Reading
This Appendix contains a list of suggested readings for background information on Wi-Fi
security.
 “XCS: Cross Channel Scripting and its Impact on Web Applications” by Hristo Bojinov,
Elie Bursztein, and Dan Boneh, 16th ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, November 9-13 2009, Chicago, Illinois;
http://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/pubs/abstracts/xcs.html
 Wi-Fi Alliance article “Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Passport – Transforming the Wi-Fi hotspot
experience”; http://www.wi-fi.org/discover-wi-fi/wi-fi-certified-passpoint
 Wi-Fi Alliance “Discover Wi Fi: Security”; http://www.wi-fi.org/discover-wi-fi/security
 “Four lesser-known Wi-Fi security threats and how to defend against them”;
http://www.techhive.com/article/3161450/wi-fi/four-lesser-known-wi-fi-security-threats-
and-how-to-defend-against-them.html
Page 30 of 31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 9
Final Report February 2017
Appendix B: Acronyms
This Appendix contains the acronyms that are referenced within this report.
Acronym Definition
AP Access Point
BIOS Basic Input / Output System
BYOD Bring Your Own Device
CA Collision Avoidance
CCA Clear Channel Assessment
CSRIC Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
DoS Denial of Service
ERP Effective Radiated Power
FCC Federal Communications Commission
GSC General Service Contractor
HVAC Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
NIST National Institute of Science and Technology
PAN Personal Area Network
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
RF Radio Frequency
SSID Secure Set Identifier
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TLS Transport Layer Security
VPN Virtual Private Network
WEP Wired Equivalent Privacy
WLAN Wireless LAN
WPA Wireless Protected Access
WPA2 Wireless Protected Access 2
Page 31 of 31
