PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/CSRIC_WG7_Final_Report_NGN_Priority_20101216.pdf:
December 2010
Final Report
Planning for NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority
Services during Pandemic Events
Working Group 7
Pandemic Planning – Priority Service RequirementsThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief.........................................................................................................................2
1.1 Executive Summary........................................................................................................2
2 Introduction..............................................................................................................................5
2.1 CSRIC Structure.............................................................................................................6
2.2 Working Group 7 Team Members..................................................................................7
2.2.1 Sub-Group Structure...................................................................................................8
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology........................................................................................8
3.1 Objective.........................................................................................................................8
3.2 Scope...............................................................................................................................9
3.3 Methodology...................................................................................................................9
4 Background............................................................................................................................10
4.1 Pandemic.......................................................................................................................10
4.2 Legacy Priority Services...............................................................................................14
4.3 Network Evolution........................................................................................................15
4.4 NS/EP NGN Priority Services......................................................................................15
4.4.1 Functional Scope.......................................................................................................16
4.4.2 Architectural Scope...................................................................................................17
4.4.3 Services Scope..........................................................................................................18
5 Assumptions, Analysis, Findings and Recommendations.....................................................19
5.1 Assumptions..................................................................................................................19
5.2 Analysis.........................................................................................................................20
5.2.1 Priority Communications Requirements during a Pandemic Event.........................20
5.2.2 Gap Analysis.............................................................................................................21
5.3 Findings.........................................................................................................................32
5.4 Recommendations.........................................................................................................33
6 Conclusions............................................................................................................................35
7 Appendices.............................................................................................................................37
7.1 Appendix A – NGN IP Priority Services Requirements............................................A-1
7.2 Appendix B – NGN IP Implementation Strategy.......................................................B-1
7.3 Appendix C – Standards.............................................................................................C-1
7.4 Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms..................................................................D-1
7.5 Appendix E – References ...........................................................................................E-1
7.6 Appendix F – 2002 Recommendations Report NS/EP Network Convergence..........F-1
1 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
In the event of a major outbreak of infectious disease, e.g., a pandemic flu, there will be a
tendency toward social distancing where large groups of people telecommute to avoid exposure
to the disease caused by clustering in common locations. Social distancing, specifically
addressed by telecommuting, will transfer and increase the demand for communications such as
person-to-person meetings and access to applications across an enterprise infrastructure (i.e.,
Local Area Network / Wide Area Network (LAN/WAN)) to the public communications
network. This event-driven transfer will place high-volume demand on residential
communications facilities, as employees seek to access information and use network-based
collaboration tools from their homes. In addition, there will be an increased demand for audio
bridges and other network-based collaboration tools as working units attempt to continue
operations. An event of this type will be difficult to plan for and can lead to congestion in the
communications networks.
Currently, the National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) community has access to
effective priority communications services that enable members to complete emergency calls
even during times when networks have extreme congestion, as well as during times when
networks have sustained considerable damage and thereby provide limited capacity. The primary
services are the Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) and Wireless
Priority Service (WPS). These priority voice and low speed data services were initially designed
to operate with legacy circuit-switched networks which are evolving to Internet Protocol (IP)
packet-switched integrated services (voice, video, and data) networks. The NS/EP community
must be able to rely on these priority services to complete their mission-essential
communications in the converging circuit-switched / IP environment. Furthermore, with the
growing reliance on data and broadband applications (e.g., email, web browsing), NS/EP
priority broadband services must be developed and implemented in the public Next Generation
Networks (NGNs)1. Because of this, it is imperative that the federal government enable network
operators to expedite their development of NS/EP priority services in the next generation IP-
based networks.
The NS/EP community is expected to use leading edge NGN technologies. The communications
industry estimates that 50% of the wireline access infrastructure used by the NS/EP community
in the next several years will be IP-based, rising to 80% by 2016 and to near 100% by 2020.
From the wireless access perspective, WPS is based on 2G2 GSM and CDMA circuit-switched
technologies. NS/EP users are upgrading to 3G and 4G devices today. Carriers indicate that the
2G technologies will be around to at least 2020 and that fallback from 3G or 4G to 2G can
1 FCC National Broadband Plan (http://www.broadband.gov/download-plan/) Recommendation
16.11 states “The FCC and the National Communications System (NCS) should create priority
network access and routing for broadband communications.”
2 Certain technical acronyms have not been spelled out in the body of the report but can be
found in Appendix D.
2 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
occur. The mechanisms to ensure redirection from 3G to 2G have been developed, and are being
implemented with priority access for WPS users. Redirection from 4G has not been defined,
implemented nor tested. Without priority functions in the access network, the NS/EP
community’s priority communications will be at risk, since they depend on technology that is
expected to be decommissioned.
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC), Working
Group 7 (WG7), was chartered to determine the requirements for priority communications
services as they relate to a pandemic event. Specifically, WG 7 was asked to: (1) develop a
NGN IP priority service requirements document that specifies the order of magnitude of users,
types of services covered (e.g., voice, data, video), number of levels of priority, processes for
authorizing priority access, performance standards/metrics, and expected costs; and (2) develop
a priority services implementation strategy (e.g., which types of service should be rolled out
first).
WG7 reviewed the impacts of a pandemic event on the existing priority communications
programs managed by the National Communications System (NCS): GETS, WPS and the
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) programs. In addition, WG7 further reviewed in
depth the NCS’ NGN Priority Services Efforts as presented to the CSRIC on March 22, 20103.
The findings and recommendations are applicable to the improvement of the country’s
communications infrastructure not only in support of a pandemic event but other declarations of
emergencies that rely on emergency communications during localized disasters (e.g., hurricanes,
earthquakes), and terrorist attacks, as well as during regional or national disasters (e.g. cyber,
power-grid), and other forms of emergencies.
Converged (or hybrid) networks, consisting of IP-networks interoperating with circuit-switched
networks, constitutes the current U.S. communications infrastructure. The recommendations are
specific to this infrastructure to enable IP telephony networks to interoperate with current/legacy
and NGNs, including support of the NCS’ legacy priority services applications (GETS, Special
Routing Arrangement Service (SRAS), WPS and TSP). These IP telephony networks include
access technologies such as broadband wireline (e.g., fiber optical networks, cable access
networks and Metropolitan Ethernet Networks) and wireless (e.g., Long Term Evolution (LTE),
Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) and satellite). It is crucial that
these networks support priority services during emergency events to ensure the availability of
mission-critical communications needed to include support of telecommuting from remote
locations during a pandemic event.
This report demonstrates the need for its recommendations to be implemented across
government and the communications industry, including continued development of NS/EP NGN
Priority Services and IP-based networks to support priority services using the capabilities being
defined in the Standards Development Organizations (SDOs),4 partnerships and fora. As
detailed in this report, there is a high probability that communications traffic during a pandemic
3 NGN Priority Services Efforts Presentation to CSRIC
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric/NCS-%20NGN-%20Presentation-CSRIC.ppt
4 IETF, 3GPP and ATIS are examples of SDOs.
3 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
event or a physical or cyber event such as a hurricane or cyber attack will be generated by a
nationwide, large NS/EP community. If 50% of NS/EP users rely solely on IP-based
communications, by 2014 it is probable that the entire community will likely originate and
terminate a sizable level of traffic over IP-based networks. As a result, it is critical that the
NS/EP NGN Priority Services and IP-based network infrastructures support communications
using priority service markings for relevant traffic. All networks need to recognize the priority
services markings, and provide priority treatment to traffic with these markings.
Four major gaps were identified that impact the ability of mission-critical personnel to use
priority communications during a pandemic event:
• FCC Ruling - While the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has ruled that
GETS5 and WPS6 can provide priority voice and voice band data communications to
NS/EP personnel on the existing Public Switched Telephone Networks (PSTN), it has
not yet ruled on the legality of providing IP-based priority services (including video and
data in addition to voice) on the NGN for NS/EP purposes. Although one of the GETS
Interexchange Carriers (IXCs) currently provides priority services on its IP-based
converged infrastructure, without this ruling, other Service Providers believe they are at
risk if they provide such services.
• Adequate Resources - For the pandemic’s duration, up to 15 million mission-critical
personnel may require priority communications. These mission-critical personnel
represent approximately 5 percent of the population of the U.S. WG7 estimates that a
significant part of this population could actively be using priority communications at any
point during the pandemic. Multiple administrative, technical and capacity issues must
be addressed in order to support an expanded user base.
• Full deployment of NS/EP NGN Priority Services - GETS and WPS provide voice
communications services only.7 While plans for priority video and data communications
exist, WG7 believes current funding levels do not permit expeditious development and
deployment of these services.
• Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAMP) Funding – WG7
believes current OAMP funding levels may be inadequate to support the functions
associated with GETS and WPS if the NS/EP user population dramatically increases.
Based on the identified gaps, key recommendations are:
• The FCC should initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider a legal framework for
priority services in an IP-based NGN environment. The FCC must rule that IP priority
communications associated with NS/EP NGN Priority Voice, Video and Data Services
are legal across all NGN media. The FCC should consider legal and policy issues
(including its own jurisdiction) raised by the potential provision of emergency voice,
5 FCC letter 16008, Re: File No. DA 94-31, August 30, 1995.
6 FCC R&O 00-242, July 2000.
7 It should be noted that, as currently configured, WPS does not support a priority SMS service.
4 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
video and data services in the range of NGN media.
• The FCC should review its TSP authorization and determine if updates to its TSP
authorization are required for broadband.
• The FCC should clarify in its rules the White House criteria to qualify for NS/EP priority
service to be applied to Critical Infrastructure employees with mission-critical
responsibilities. This is to support the expanded user base identified in the National
Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) and Partnership for
Critical Infrastructure Security (PCIS) reports. In particular, to support Critical
Infrastructure employees, the Level 4 and Level 5 priorities should be changed from
“managing critical infrastructure activities” to “performing mandatory critical
infrastructure activities.”
• The FCC should continue its support of NS/EP priority communications. Specifically,
the FCC should work with the Executive and Legislative branches to heighten awareness
of the need for funding to support:
o The extension of GETS / WPS to support a significantly-expanded user
population.
o The transition of GETS / WPS from circuit-switched voice to NGN IP-based
voice, video and data. [This includes maintaining legacy circuit-switched priority
capabilities until 2020, and developing and maintaining new NS/EP NGN priority
capabilities as well as development of priority communications-related technical
standards within the various standards bodies.]
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and the
communications industry to ensure that they implement and deploy NS/EP NGN Priority
Services as quickly as possible given available funding.
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and
sponsoring organizations to ensure that they enroll and train as many NS/EP and
mission-critical infrastructure personnel (as would be expected during a pandemic) on
the use of NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
2 Introduction
Consistent with the Federal Advisory Committee Act,8 FCC Chairman Julius Genechowski
appointed persons to serve on the CSRIC. The Chairman further designated representatives
from AT&T and the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials, International
(APCO) as Co-Chairs of the CSRIC. CSRIC succeeds the Network Reliability and
Interoperability Council (NRIC) and Media Security and Reliability Council (MSRC). NRIC
8 5 U.S.C. Appendix 2.
5 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
and MSRC were previously established to develop best practices for ensuring reliability and
resiliency in telecommunications networks and media systems.
The current CSRIC Charter9 runs from March 19, 2009, through March 18, 2011. Members are
tasked with developing recommendations for best practices and actions the FCC can take to
enhance the operability, security, and reliability of communications infrastructure while also
considering the associated impacts to new and advanced technologies including broadband and
IP-based technologies.
Specifically:
• The purpose of CSRIC is to provide recommendations to the FCC to ensure optimal
security, reliability, and interoperability of communications systems, including public
safety, telecommunications and media communications.
• Recommendations provided by CSRIC shall include those relating to:
o Wireline, wireless, satellite, cable, and public voice and data networks,
o Broadcast and multichannel video programming distribution facilities.
• Recommendations will address:
o Ensuring the availability of communications capacity during natural disasters,
terrorist attacks or other events that result in exceptional strain on the
communications infrastructure;
o Ensuring and facilitating the rapid restoration of communications services in the
event of widespread or major disruptions.
The duties of the CSRIC are to gather data and information necessary to formulate
recommendations for submission to the FCC.
2.1 CSRIC Structure
CSRIC members were selected from among public safety agencies, consumer or community
organizations or other non-profit entities, and other parts of the private sector. This broad
representation approach is to balance the expertise and viewpoints that are necessary to
effectively address the issues under consideration.
On December 7, 2009, the FCC held the first meeting of the CSRIC. Due to the large scope of
the CSRIC mandate, the committee divided into working groups, each of which was tasked with
deliverables based on specific subject matter areas. In early 2010, ten working groups were
created to break out the activities assigned to the CSRIC, including WG7. The CSRIC
governance structure is depicted as follows.
9 See 74 Fed. Reg. 11721-11722 (March 19, 2009).
6 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
2.2 Working Group 7 Team Members
In late winter 2010, WG7 members and co-chair appointments were finalized and on April 8,
2010, WG7 held its kick-off meeting. The CSRIC timeline called for WG7 to submit a final
report to CSRIC by mid-December 2010.
WG7 is comprised of 21 members, including its two Co-Chairs. Members include academia,
industry, and government that represent a wide variety of private and public entities. Many
members or their member organizations have a strong background in use of priority services,
standards development, and delivery or management of existing NS/EP priority services. WG7
consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Ingrid Caples (Co-Chair) U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
Jerry Wade (Co-Chair) Sprint Nextel
Brian Allen Time Warner
Chris Oberg Verizon Wireless
Darrell Lingk Qwest
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) / National
Frank Suraci
Communications System (NCS)
Jane Kelly Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
Jim Runyon Alcatel-Lucent
7 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
John Coleman Department of Public Safety, New York State
Martin Dolly AT&T
Nate Wilcox MicroDATA
Nick Mangiardi Sprint Nextel
Ray Barnes International Assoc. of Fire Chiefs,
Rick Kemper Cellular Telephone Industries Association (CTIA)
Satellite Industry Association / Spacenet Integrated
Robert Turner
Government Solutions, Inc.
National Emergency Number Association (NENA)
Sharon Counterman
/Greater Harris County 911 Emergency Network
Steve Waken AT&T
Veronica Lancaster Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
Viqar Shaikh Telcordia Technologies
Walt Magnussen NENA / Texas A&M University
Wayne Pacine Federal Reserve Board
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
2.2.1 Sub-Group Structure
For a period of time WG7 broke into three sub-groups: two focused on the deliverables that
were tasked by CSRIC while one focused on identifying, from a technical perspective, gaps,
challenges, or barriers that may exist in delivery of NS/EP priority services in an NGN IP
environment. Following a face-to-face full working group meeting in September 2010, WG7
recombined to develop and finalize the report and associated appendices.
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
In accordance with the WG7 description, the group focused its effort to satisfy report and
deliverable requirements together with applicable standards and other related efforts.
The specific WG7 task is to deliver the following:
(1) Develop a Next Generation Networks (NGN) IP-based priority service requirements
document that specifies the order of magnitude of the user population, types of services covered
8 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
(e.g., voice, data, video), number of levels of priority, processes for authorizing priority access,
performance standards/metrics, and expected costs. (Appendix A)
(2) Develop a priority services implementation strategy (e.g., which types of service should be
rolled out first). (Appendix B)
This final report and associated appendices document the work accomplished by the CSRIC
WG7.
3.2 Scope
The primary purpose of the report is to provide recommendations that will lead to the successful
use of NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services when required by the NS/EP
community; and to facilitate the availability of NGN Priority services to the NS/EP community
irrespective of the severity of an event but within recognized limitations.
The FCC and CSRIC recognize that during a catastrophic event, the National Response
Framework (NRF) will be activated: the All-Hazard plan, based on the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) and the Incident Command System (ICS). This report also
considered cyber events and the priority service communication requirements of the National
Cyber Incident Response Plan (NCIRP).
All agencies at all levels of government that are preparing and planning for major disasters
should be familiar with the NRF, NIMS, ICF and the NCIRP and during a disaster expect to
operate under the NRF structure. In addition all agencies should train, exercise, and measure
their effectiveness based on these documents.
The Department of Health and Human Services under the Pandemic and All Hazards
Preparedness Act (PAHPA) and NRF serves as the lead Federal entity for Emergency Support
Function 8 (ESF#8). These authorities provide the mechanism for coordinated Federal assistance
to supplement State, tribal, and local resources in response to a public health and/or other
disaster-related incident requiring a coordinated Federal response. References to information on
NRF, PAHPA, and public health emergencies can be found in Appendix E.
3.3 Methodology
Early on it became evident that the WG7 discovery effort would be extensive and broad. WG7
therefore held weekly conference calls, collaborated via a wiki web space, and held one 4-day
face-to-face meeting in the Washington D.C. metro area.
Discovery and analysis spanned several areas of discipline including Industry Standards
Organizations, Pandemic Planning, Critical Infrastructure, NRF and Emergency Support
Functions, and NCIRP functions, in addition to priority communications services in support of
the NS/EP community. Documentation and presentations were made by WG7 members on
9 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
pandemics and on existing NCS activities; this information was used by the working group in
performing the gap analysis and in identifying activities, schedules and costs to extend the
existing GETS and WPS programs to support priority communications during a pandemic event.
The analysis, findings and recommendations presented in the following sections reflect the WG7
consensus on what needs to be accomplished to support priority communications during a
pandemic. The analysis, findings and recommendations presented may not reflect current NCS
budget and program information.
WG7 would like to acknowledge efforts associated with the many references that WG7
reviewed and incorporated as part of our task. Further, we captured information and conducted
analysis within the boundaries of our constraints; any misrepresentation or omission is
unintentional and solely falls on WG7.
4 Background
4.1 Pandemic
According to [HHS 1]:10
Pandemics have occurred intermittently over centuries. The last three pandemics11, in
1918, 1957 and 1968, killed approximately 40 million, 2 million and 1 million people
worldwide, respectively. Although the timing cannot be predicted, history and science
suggest that we will face one or more pandemics in this century.
It is impossible to know in advance whether a particular influenza virus, such as the
H1NI influenza of 2009 or the H5N1 virus, will lead to a human pandemic. The
widespread nature of H5N1 in birds and the likelihood of mutations over time have long
raised concerns that virus would become transmissible among humans, with potentially
catastrophic consequences.
According to [PCIS 1]:
A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report (Influenza Pandemic:
Sustaining Focus on the Nation’s Planning and Preparedness Efforts, GAO-09-334,
February 2009) concluded that preparing for a pandemic influenza outbreak or other
large-scale public health emergency remains an urgent priority requiring ongoing activity
for governments and businesses worldwide.
The Federal government has based its pandemic preparedness planning on assumptions
10 Information on the documents identified by the “[ ]” cross-reference can be found in
Appendix E.
11 These were severe to moderate Pandemics; the 2009 H1N1 influenza Pandemic event
occurred after the 2005 report
10 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). These planning assumptions include:
• The clinical disease attack rate will be 30% in the overall population during the
pandemic. Among working adults, an average of 20% will become ill during a
community outbreak.
• Rates of absenteeism will depend on the severity of the pandemic. In a severe
pandemic, absenteeism attributable to illness, the need to care for ill family members
and fear of infection may reach 40% during the peak weeks of a community
outbreak.
• Epidemics will last 6 to 8 weeks in affected communities.
• Multiple waves of illness are likely to occur with each wave lasting 2 to 3 months.
In addition to direct medical consequences, a pandemic is expected to negatively impact
the economy. Workforce impacts are expected to be of primary concern, particularly for
critical infrastructure. Interruption of critical services at any point could lead to
cascading interruption of critical services at many points either up or down the supply
chain. Additional factors such as travel restrictions and quarantines in response to a
pandemic will limit mobility and could further disrupt global supply chains. It has been
predicted that the U.S. Gross Domestic Product may decrease by as much as 5% due to
potential disruptions to supply chains around the world.
For the economic security of the country, the economy must function at a high level during a
pandemic event. The effects of a severe, protracted loss of network availability can be
devastating to local and regional businesses. According the U.S. Department of Labor, only 40
percent of businesses are able to continue operating immediately following a disaster and only
28 percent of businesses survive longer than a year afterwards. During the pandemic event, the
economic security of the country is also a major component of national security. According to
[PCIS 1], 13 of the 16 Critical Infrastructure sectors interviewed identified a functioning
Communications sector as a necessary component for continuity of operations. Thus
communications must be ensured for critical components of the economy.
In 2007, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) conducted a study with Industry,
particularly the communications, information technology (IT) and financial communities, to
determine the impact of a pandemic event on communications networks. A model was
developed to analyze the relationship between a pandemic spread, network user behavior, and
network performance, and to quantify the impact of a pandemic on the communications
infrastructure. The model used network data provided by carriers and transaction data provided
by financial institutions. The model and results were vetted by experts in the communications,
IT and financial organizations supporting the study. The report [DHS 1] found:
The unique features of a pandemic outbreak in the U.S. cannot be accurately predicted in
advance. The specific pandemic parameters, quarantine decisions, and human behavior
may not be realized until an actual pandemic. From the telecommuting perspective, the
most important parameter is the absenteeism level that causes the change in home
11 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
network user population. For the existing commercial communications infrastructure
without any additional preparations, it is concluded that:
• In a low absenteeism pandemic scenario, the telecommuting strategy is
anticipated to be successful for the majority of telecommuters.
• In a 40 percent absenteeism scenario, the telecommuting strategy is expected to
be significantly impacted for most telecommuters during the peak of the
pandemic.
Workplace absenteeism and the need to maintain social distancing will likely increase
the reliance of businesses on communications and IT services in a pandemic scenario.
This increased reliance may heighten cyber risk for businesses, telecommuters, and
general public Internet users. With reduced support staff due to the pandemic, businesses
may also encounter decreased capabilities to respond to cyber incidents. Attackers may
also view the U.S. as vulnerable and may increase attacks during a pandemic. Employees
normally protected by corporate firewalls must now rely on the security of their home
networks.
Thus, during a pandemic event, the Communications sector must provide the following key
functions:
• “Command and control” communication capabilities so that all critical infrastructure
sectors can operate.
• Information dissemination communication capabilities for governments to inform the
public and for organizations to inform their employees, customers and business partners.
• Security communications capabilities (e.g., security patches) for governments and
organizations to combat cyber attacks.
• Data communications requirements for the public. In packet-based networks, voice and
video are specialized classes of data. During a pandemic event, the public will require
communications capabilities for teleconferencing, bill payments, fund transfers,
electronic ordering and delivery, and remote access to work.
To provide these key functions during network congestion, priority communications are needed.
Although a pandemic event is seen as a rare event, from a communications perspective, the
pandemic event incorporates the features associated with physical damage scenarios and with
cyber attacks. For example, restoral of the communications infrastructure from a severe physical
incident like an earthquake or a hurricane may take days to weeks and may depend on the
movement of repair personnel into the affected area. During a pandemic event, restoral of the
communications infrastructure from “normal” network failures may take days to weeks due to
personnel constraints causing prioritization of administrative, operational, maintenance and
provisioning functions and a lengthening of time to provide these functions. In addition, restoral
of the communications infrastructure during a pandemic depends on the ability of the Energy;
Postal and Shipping; and Transportation sectors to function. Impacts to these sectors will impact
12 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
restoration of the communications infrastructure (e.g., travel restrictions may prevent
communications staff from going into an affected area to restore service).
The table below compares the duration, damage, restoral capabilities and network congestion
aspects of a physical damage scenario, a cyber attack and a pandemic.
Physical Damage (e.g. Cyber Attack Pandemic
Hurricane, Earthquake)
Duration The duration of the Attacks are on-going. Epidemics will last 6 to 8 weeks in
incident is minutes to affected communities. Multiple
days. The duration of the waves of illness are likely to occur
recovery is days to with each wave lasting 2 to 3
months. months.
Damage Physical damage to the Successful attacks Successful cyber attacks can
communications can impact the impact the capacity and capabilities
infrastructure in the capacity and of the communications
location of the event. capabilities of the infrastructure.
communications
infrastructure.
Restoral Depends on ability to Depends on the Communications staff will be
Capabilities move personnel from ability of personnel impacted by the pandemic. Human
unaffected locations into to stop attacks resource constraints will cause
the location of the event. through prioritization of administrative,
countermeasures. operational, maintenance and
provisioning functions and a
lengthening of time to provide
these functions. The
Communications sector depends on
the ability of the Energy; Postal
and Shipping; and Transportation
Critical Infrastructure (CI) sectors
to function. Impacts to these CI
sectors will impact the
Communications sector (e.g., travel
restrictions may prevent
communications staff from going
into an affected area to restore
service).
Network Local / regional due to Potentially Potentially nationwide due to
Congestion telecommuting in the nationwide, telecommuting in the affected
affected region, and depending on the regions, Continuity of Government
Continuity of nature of the attack. (COG) and Continuity of
Government (COG) and Operations (COOP)
Continuity of Operations communications in the affected
(COOP) regions and the nature of the cyber
telecommunications in the attacks.
affected region.
13 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
4.2 Legacy Priority Services
For many years the NS/EP community has relied extensively on public telecommunications
networks for a large portion of its NS/EP communications needs. This reliance has increased in
recent years as the functionality of public networks has improved and as the Federal
Government has found more efficient and effective ways to use public telecommunications
services. As public network providers have deployed more advanced equipment, the increased
use of public telecommunications networks has often also brought the benefits of new features at
substantially more cost-effective rates to the Federal Government.
This increased reliance on public telecommunications networks, however, can make the NS/EP
community more vulnerable to public telecommunications network failures. For example, as an
agency increasingly expands its use of telecommunications services as an integral part of its
essential operational functions, (e.g., data processing), a failure of a public telecommunications
network can leave the agency without the ability to conduct those essential functions. In
addition, the increased threat of terrorist attacks and cyber attacks that can affect
telecommunications networks raises other serious concerns that must be factored in if NS/EP
communications are to remain highly reliable.
Until recently, network reliability assessments were focused primarily on the effects of natural
disasters (e.g., hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, or snowstorms), unintentional man-made damage
(e.g., backhoe related cable cuts), and the inherent reliability of the network equipment and
operations. But the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and the continuing terrorist threats
have made it clear that sabotage and terrorist attacks must be given serious consideration when
gauging the overall reliability of PSTN.
The National Communications System (NCS) was formed following the Cuban Missile Crisis to
provide better communications support to critical Government functions during emergencies.
The mission of the NCS is to assist the President, the National Security Staff, the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy and the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget in (1) the exercise of the telecommunications functions and responsibilities, and (2) the
coordination of the planning for and provision of national security and emergency preparedness
(NS/EP) communications for the Federal government under all circumstances, including crisis
or emergency, attack and recovery, and reconstitution.
The NCS is an interagency group consisting of 24 Federal departments and agencies that
coordinate and plan NS/EP communications. Each NCS member organization is represented on
the NCS through a Committee of Principals (COP). The COP provides advice and
recommendations to the NCS and the Executive Office of the President (EOP) and its ties to
other critical infrastructures. The NCS also participates in joint industry-Government planning
through its work with the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory
Committee (NSTAC).
The NCS’ priority services programs, TSP, GETS, and WPS, support authorized personnel from
Federal, State, local and tribal governments, industry, and non-profit organizations in
14 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
performing their NS/EP missions. These programs are discussed in more detail in Appendix A.
4.3 Network Evolution
The circuit-switched PSTN is composed of a few large nationwide carriers (also known as Tier 1
carriers), many regional (Tier 2) carriers, and over 1,000 small, local (Tier 3) carriers. The NCS
has worked with all the Tier 1 and Tier 2 carriers, and with key Tier 3 carriers, to provide GETS
features in their networks.
The PSTN is migrating from circuit-switched technology to packet-switched technology. It is
estimated in the next several years that 50% of the PSTN infrastructure used by the NS/EP
community will be IP-based, and rising to 80% by 2016, with the transition to IP-based
technologies near 100% by 2020.
Most PSTN carriers also provide IP-based services. In addition, there are numerous nationwide,
regional and local Internet Service Providers (ISPs) providing IP-based services. The larger
service providers offer managed quality of service networks as well as “best effort” Internet
networks.
The transition to IP-based technologies introduces significant technical complexities to the
provision of emergency communications services. The GETS and WPS systems were
implemented in circuit-switched networks in which a limited number of regulated carriers
provide the vast majority of the services, and in which the endpoints of those carriers’ networks
are in most situations readily accessible to emergency personnel (for example, in the wireline
world, simply by dialing “9” to reach an outside line, and then dialing the GETS access
number). In contrast, the Internet is a widely distributed network with many small and
unregulated providers of access services, in which emergency personnel in many wireline
scenarios may not be able to directly connect to the network of a GETS-like provider, but may
instead be forced to traverse ISP “Internet” networks rather than managed networks. These
architectural differences introduce a host of complex technical and policy challenges to
providing GETS-like service in the IP-based environment. For example, one of the GETS IXCs
currently provides priority services on its IP-based core infrastructure.12 Other service providers
have expressed concern over providing priority services, especially in their access and
aggregation networks.
4.4 NS/EP NGN Priority Services
NS/EP NGN Priority Services are intended to preserve and extend GETS and WPS, as Service
Providers transition their networks to Internet Protocol (IP)-based packet-switched networks. As
part of its effort to develop and deploy NS/EP NGN Priority Services, the NCS followed a
proven process previously used for GETS and WPS: it convened Industry working groups for
12 Priority is being provided in the IXC’s core, where there are separate logical networks for
best-effort Internet traffic and managed quality of service IP traffic.
15 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
defining priority communications in an IP environment. These working groups produced a series
of requirements documents which were made available to the WG7 as follows:
• Core Network (based on an IP Multimedia System (IMS) architecture)
o Phase 1 - Voice over IP
o A Phase 2 planned by the NCS and the communications industry, covering
broadband video and data, has not yet been initiated.
• Wireline Access Network
o Optical fiber (Broadband and Ethernet) Passive Optical Networks (PONs), cable
access networks, Metropolitan Ethernet Networks, and Digital Subscriber Line
(DSL)
o Of these technologies, optical fiber, cable access network, and Metropolitan
Ethernet Networks are seen as the appropriate technologies for priority
communications by WG7.
• Wireless Access Network
o High Rate Packet Data (HRPD)
o evolved High Rate Packet Data (eHRPD)
o Universal Mobile Telecommunication Service (UMTSTM) (High Speed Packet
Access (HSPA))
o Evolved Packet System (EPS) (Long Term Evolution (LTETM) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC))
o Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAXTM)
o Satellite (GEO Mobile Radio (GMR)-1 3rd Generation(3G))
o Of these wireless technologies, HRPD, eHRPD and HSPA are seen as 3G
transitional technologies; while LTE, WiMAX and satellite are seen as
technologies for the longer term.
4.4.1 Functional Scope
The NS/EP Functional Requirements addressed by NS/EP NGN Priority Services are identified
in the report of the 2002 White House Convergence Working Group [WH 1] and are
summarized in Table 4.4-1.
Table 4.4-1. White House Recommendations for NS/EP Functional Requirements
Functional Requirement Description
Enhanced Priority Treatment Services supporting NS/EP missions must be provided priority treatment over
other traffic.
Secure Networks Networks must have protection against corruption of, or unauthorized access
to, traffic and control, including expanded encryption techniques and user
authentication, as appropriate.
Anonymity Selected users must be able to use NS/EP services without risk of usage being
16 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
traced (i.e., without risk of user or location being identified).
Restorability Should a disruption occur, services must be capable of being reprovisioned,
repaired, or restored to required service levels on a priority basis.
International Connectivity Services must provide access to and egress from international carriers.
Interoperability Services must interconnect and interoperate with other selected government
or private facilities, systems, and networks.
Mobility The communications infrastructure must support transportable, redeployable,
or fully mobile communications (e.g., personal communications service,
cellular, satellite, high frequency radio).
Ubiquitous Coverage Services must be readily accessible to support the national security leadership
and inter- and intra-agency emergency operations, wherever they are located.
Survivability / Endurability Services must be robust to support surviving users under a broad range of
circumstances, from the widespread damage of a natural or man-made
disaster up to and including nuclear war.
Voice Band Service The service must provide voice band service in support of presidential and
other communications.
Broadband Service The service must provide broadband service in support of NS/EP missions
(e.g., video, imaging, web access, multimedia).
Scalable Bandwidth NS/EP users must be able to manage the capacity of the communications
services to support variable bandwidth requirements.
Affordability Services must leverage network capabilities to minimize cost (e.g., use of
existing infrastructure, commercial off-the-shelf technologies, services).
Reliability / Availability Services must perform consistently and precisely according to their design
requirements and specifications, and must be usable with high confidence.
4.4.2 Architectural Scope
The existing U.S. telecommunications infrastructure is a mixture of circuit-switched and packet-
switched technologies, as shown in Figure 4.4-1 below.13
13 Figure taken from [DHS 1]. Since [DHS 1] was produced, WiMAX has also been deployed as
an access technology.
17 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Figure 4.4-1. Potential Congestion Points in U.S. Telecomm Infrastructure During a
Pandemic Event
The NCS has worked with communications industry vendors and carriers to provide priority
communications in the PSTN and to provide priority communications through the gateways
between the circuit-based PSTN and IP packet networks. The NCS has also worked with the
communications industry through the IR process to define priority communications functional
requirements for packet networks. The packet-technology portion of the telecommunications
infrastructure is referred to as NGNs.
Users’ devices connect to an NGN to provide network services to end users, including enabling
users to communicate with each other as well as to remotely access information resident on
network servers. An NGN may be described as composed of access networks and core networks,
as shown in Figure 4.4-2.
Originating Network
Terminating Network
Access Core
Core Access
Networks Networks
Networks Networks
DSL UNI
UNI DSL ` DSL UNI
Cable UNI
`
`
UNI Cable FTTx UNI Cable
UNI
EV-DO
HRPD UNI
FTTx
UNI EV-DO FTTx
eHRPD UNI UNI
IMS
IMS
EV-DO UMTS UNI EV-DO
UNI HRPD
HRPD UNI
Man IPaged L NTE UNI Managed
EV-DO NI IP
UNI eHRPD WiMAX UNI EV-DO
eHRPD UNI
Satellite
Internet GM 3GR-1 Internet
UNI UMTS NNI UMTS
UNI
LTE
UNI Transit Network LTE
UNI
Core
Networks
WiMAX
UNI WiMAX
NNI IMS NNI UNI
S Ga Mte Rlli -t 1e Man IPaged Satellite
GMR-1
3G
3G
Internet
Note: NGN GETS signaling traffic must interact with Functional Entities in a core network. NGN GETS bearer traffic may traverse no core networks.
Figure 4.4-2. Illustrative NGN Technology Arrangements
4.4.3 Services Scope
Based on the IR documents produced by the NCS and the communications industry, NS/EP
NGN Priority Services will include video and data services in addition to voice. The set of
priority services for the NS/EP community consists of:
• NS/EP NGN Priority Voice
18 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
• NS/EP NGN Priority Video
• NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport
The NS/EP NGN Priority Voice service provides continuity to the Legacy GETS and WPS
services through the communications industry NGN transition.
NGN GETS Video is expected to provide video teleconferencing services and would include
voice and video components that may involve very different network bandwidth and
performance requirements from NGN GETS Voice, and may be used in different modes from
those generally thought of for voice (e.g., two-way audio conversations with two-way video, or
two-way audio conversations with one-way video). NS/EP NGN Priority Video service is
specified based on the same session-oriented IMS Core Network reference architecture used for
NGN GETS Voice, including the same signaling protocols.
NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport service is expected to provide priority treatment for
packets’ transport (i.e., at the transport layer but not at the processing and service layers). NS/EP
NGN Priority Data Transport service may provide priority transport to all packets of all data
applications used by the Service User, or it may be limited in some way (e.g., supports only
particular applications or transport to particular destinations). Note that NS/EP NGN Priority
Data Transport service is defined the same as all other services in its need for specific, per-use
invocation and release by the Service User, and the need for such invocation to be given priority
treatment in signaling and processing. NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport may differ from the
other services in its use of an explicit Service User release action to stop priority treatment
without releasing the underlying service.
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) is the priority provisioning and restoration of
physical circuits that provide connectivity for NS/EP users. This service must continue in an IP
based environment to ensure connectivity for critical government and industry facilities. The
need for ensuring connectivity is still germane in an IP-based communication environment as it
is today in a circuit-switched environment.
5 Assumptions, Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
5.1 Assumptions
In creating this report, WG7 made the following assumptions:
• The previous referenced reports reviewed for this effort were considered valid.
• The NCS remains the execution authority for the NS/EP NGN Priority Services program
and the FCC provides the legal and regulatory framework for the commercial carriers.
• The recommendations made in this report will be implemented.
• The Stafford Act could be invoked during a long-term pandemic.
19 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
5.2 Analysis
The analysis is divided into two major parts. In Section 5.2.1, an analysis of a pandemic event is
conducted to determine the requirements for priority communications during the event. In
Section 5.2.2, a gap analysis between the requirements identified in Section 5.2.1 and the
existing GETS, WPS and TSP services is performed.
5.2.1 Priority Communications Requirements during a Pandemic Event
According to [PCIS 1], a pandemic event will have the following parameters:
• The clinical disease attack rate will be 30% in the overall population during the
pandemic. Among working adults, an average of 20% will become ill during a
community outbreak.
• Rates of absenteeism will depend on the severity of the pandemic. In a severe pandemic,
absenteeism attributable to illness, the need to care for ill family members, and fear of
infection may reach 40% during the peak weeks of a community outbreak.
• Epidemics will last 6 to 8 weeks in affected communities.
• Multiple waves of illness are likely to occur with each wave lasting 2 to 3 months.
Thus, from the perspective of priority communications, a pandemic event differs from other
recent U.S. disasters in two dimensions:
• The duration of a pandemic event is measured in terms of months (e.g., 6 – 12 months)
versus hours or days for recent U.S. disaster events.
• The scope of the pandemic event is nationwide, versus local or regional for recent U.S.
disaster events.
A pandemic event may start in a few locations. At the start, the traffic at these locations will be
similar to those found in recent U.S. disaster events (e.g., traffic spikes in the affected areas, and
traffic spikes into and out of the affected areas). Within the affected areas, traffic distribution
will likely change as telecommuting becomes more prevalent, shifting traffic from a smaller
number of enterprise locations to a larger number of residential locations.
As the pandemic spreads to more locations, nationwide traffic for COG and COOP will increase,
while localized traffic spikes will occur in newly affected locations.
Audio, video and web-based teleconferencing requirements will increase, as the population
shuns face-to-face meetings.
Remote data access from servers on corporate and government enterprise sites will become
20 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
important for telecommuters and for remote control of other critical infrastructure.
Since the pandemic will impact the entire U.S., it is likely that all 18 Critical Infrastructure
segments14 will have need for priority communications sometime during the pandemic event.
The communications infrastructure providing priority communications will likely degrade
during various stages of the pandemic event because:
• Communications staff will be impacted by the pandemic. Human resource constraints
will cause prioritization of administrative, operational, maintenance and provisioning
functions and a lengthening of time to provide these functions. Priority medical treatment
for key communications workers could lessen the severity of this impact on the
communications infrastructure.
• The Communications sector depends on the ability of the Energy; Postal and Shipping;
and Transportation Critical Infrastructure (CI) sectors to function. Impacts to these CI
sectors will impact the Communications sector (e.g., travel restrictions may prevent
communications staff from going into an affected area to restore service).
Finally, according to [DHS 1]
In the context of the pandemic scenario with increased network users at home, interviews
with communications subject matter experts were used to identify areas of highest risk
for telecommuting congestion. In particular, consensus was reached that the general
areas of highest risk for congestion from the perspective of telecommuting are enterprise
networks and residential Internet access networks. Communications backbone networks
are assumed to be minimally affected in the pandemic scenario. These backbone
networks generally have an ability to support a large surge in traffic load. One backbone
provider reported that backbone links are typically maintained at traffic loads not to
exceed 45 percent utilization. Additionally, in the network cores, more opportunities
exist to balance traffic loads and route around congestion points.
5.2.2 Gap Analysis
Legality of Priority Communications Services for NS/EP Users
While the FCC has ruled that GETS and WPS can provide priority voice and voiceband data
communications to NS/EP personnel on the existing public switched network, it has not yet
ruled on the legality of providing IP-based priority services (including video and data in addition
to voice) on the NGN for NS/EP purposes. Without this ruling, Service Providers believe they
are at risk if they provide such services.
Given the ruling in Comcast Corp. v. Federal Communications Commission, 08-1291, and the
continuing work on the FCC’s Broadband Plan, WG7 recognizes the FCC’s legal and regulatory
14 http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/gc_1189168948944.shtm.
21 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
framework for broadband communications is still evolving. However, WG7 believes the FCC
should initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider a legal framework for priority services in an
IP-based NGN environment. . The FCC must rule that IP priority communications associated
with NS/EP NGN Priority Voice, Video and Data Services are legal across all NGN media. The
FCC should consider legal and policy issues (including its own jurisdiction) raised by the
potential provision of emergency voice, video and data services in the range of NGN media.
Statutory Protections for Providers of Priority Communications for NS/EP Users
Absent some statutory protections from liability, providers of mobile data services are likely to
be reluctant to offer NGN priority services for NS/EP users, even if it would not be unlawful to
do so. This is due to the likelihood that, in localized incidents, the use of priority services by
NS/EP users could result in blocked calls or data sessions for non-priority users. Accordingly,
in addition to an FCC ruling on the legality of providing IP-based on the NGN for NS/EP
purposes, the WG7 team believes that the FCC and the NS/EP community should pursue
statutory liability protections for carriers who agree to provide such NGN priority services to
NS/EP users.
FCC Report and Order (R&O) for Priority Access Service (PAS)
The FCC PAS R&O 00-242 applies to Commercial Mobile Radio Service (CMRS) providers in
providing priority voice communications to the NS/EP user community. NS/EP users now have
need for priority video and priority data in addition to IP-based priority voice. The R&O
currently describes PAS as providing “priority access to available radio channels when
necessary to initiate emergency calls.”15 The description of PAS as a voice service is elaborated
to address non-preemption, service availability, authorization, invocation, and priorities.
The evolving need of NS/EP users for video and data services in addition to IP-based voice
service, plus experience with PAS to date and FCC plans for broadband Public Safety service,
leads to several changes needed in the R&O:
1) Broadband services in the evolving CMRS technologies are packet-oriented and no
longer appropriately considered as using radio “channels.” It is more appropriate to
speak in terms of the “radio access network resources.”
2) The extension to video and data services requires a change from terminology of
“calls.” It is more appropriate to speak in terms of “sessions,” “connections,” and
“services.”
3) Data services are generally not appropriately described in terms of “call,” and often
not appropriately described in terms of “session.” It is more appropriate to speak of
invoking PAS and revoking PAS. Correspondingly, some NS/EP users have pointed out
the “unfriendliness” of having to invoke the service for each instance of use when
15 Appendix C, 4, 2, c.
22 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
engaged in a stream of emergency activity. To address this concern, the description
should be modified to allow a variety of arrangements for PAS invocation.
4) Experience with PAS to date during extreme overload conditions has shown that PAS
effectiveness may be compromised by the effects of signaling congestion preventing
successful PAS invocation. The description change should give explicit recognition to
the acceptability of priority signaling when needed to enable PAS invocation.
5) Although network congestion is the primary cause for service degradation
necessitating PAS, it is not the only condition that could impair NS/EP mission success
(e.g., facility outages could require extended alternate routing beyond that applied in the
public service). The description needs to expand the conditions under which PAS may be
used.
6) The FCC broadband plan provides a means for CMRS providers to serve Public
Safety needs. The PAS description should be updated to give explicit recognition to the
need for PAS and Public Safety services to be interoperable.
7) The wireless infrastructure has become sufficiently robust such that it is no longer
appropriate to limit PAS to only “Leadership and Key Staff.” Rather, the PAS user
population should be limited only by the bona fide role of users in conduct of an NS/EP
mission and the capacity of the infrastructure to support the population of qualified
NS/EP users with effective service while not materially compromising the infrastructure
capacity for public service.
Number of Priority Communications Users
An NSTAC report16 identified the need to expand priority communications to 8 – 10 million
users, with the more expansive interpretation of roles related to NS/EP and emergency
communications including first responders, national response and federal response plan users,
NIMS users, NS/EP users, Critical Infrastructure (CI) owners, operators and decision makers,
key municipal leadership and decision makers, public health systems, and cyber security and
public warning stakeholders.
A Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security report [PCIS 1] identified the number of
“mission-critical” Tier 1 and Tier 2 users as 15 million. The difference between the 10 million
users identified in the [NSTAC 1] report and the 15 million users identified in the [PCIS 1]
report is the inclusion of key personnel, including accounting and payroll personnel, necessary
to keep organizations running during the pandemic.These 15 million PCIS Tier 1 and Tier 2 CI
employees would need priority communications sometime during a pandemic in order to
perform their jobs.
Besides the overall NS/EP user population estimate, it is important to know the number of
simultaneously active users during the event in order to engineer the required support for
16
NSTAC Report to the President on Emergency Communications and Interoperability, January 2007 [NSTAC 1]
23 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
priority communications. Experience with voice communications during previous disaster
recovery events shows that the duration of priority calls is approximately three minutes, the
same as for normal public calls. With calls of this duration, the number of simultaneously active
voice users is estimated to be 350,000.
Priority video communications are expected to have holding times on the order of an hour. In
addition, it is expected that priority video will be used by Government leadership coordinating
the response to pandemic. Using this assumption, the number of simultaneously active video
users is estimated to be 100,000.
Priority data communications are expected to have holding times on the order of hours,
especially during a pandemic event. WG7 estimates that a significant portion of this population
could be actively using priority data communications at any point during the height of the
pandemic.
Given an expanded NS/EP user population of 15 million, the traffic and engineering
assumptions used in the creation of the NCS’ priority services would need to be reviewed.
Given the above discussion, there is a need for the EOP, FCC, NCS and the communications
industry to:
• Better define the NS/EP user population.
• Determine the projected penetration rate of GETS, WPS and NS/EP NGN Priority
Services among the NS/EP user community.
• Work with the NS/EP community to specify the functional requirements for priority
voice, video and data.
• Estimate the daily and peak hour voice traffic requirements per NS/EP user.
• Estimate the daily and peak hour video traffic requirements per NS/EP user.
• Estimate the daily and peak hour data traffic requirements per NS/EP user, based on type
of application (e.g., web browsing, e-mail).
• Determine the impact of priority video and data communications on the ability of the
(non-priority) public to use these services.
Finally, to support the expanded user base identified in the NSTAC and PCIS reports, the FCC
must clarify in its rules that the White House criteria to qualify for NS/EP priority service can be
applied to CI employees with mission-critical responsibilities. In particular, to support CI
employees, the Level 4 and Level 5 priorities should be changed from managing critical
infrastructure activities to performing critical infrastructure activities. The following are
proposed changes to these two priority levels:
24 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
4 Critical Users who qualify for the Critical Infrastructure and Public
Infrastructure Welfare priority will be assigned Priority 4. Eligible for this
and priority are those users whose responsibilities include critical
Public Welfare infrastructure (including public services, utilities, transportation,
finance, etc.) damage assessment and restoration efforts to
accomplish emergency response activities.
5 Disaster Users who qualify for the Disaster Recovery priority will be
Recovery assigned Priority 5. Eligible for this priority are those individuals
responsible for a variety of recovery operations after
the initial response has been accomplished
Relation Between the NCS’ NS/EP NGN Priority Services Program and the FCC’s
Broadband Plan
Service providers have queried the NCS as to how the NCS’ program relates to the FCC’s
Broadband Plan. Clarification of this is needed as both efforts progress.
Development and Deployment of Priority Communications Services for Pandemic Events
During a pandemic event, GETS and WPS can provide priority voice communications to the
NS/EP community. And while a pandemic may be unlikely in the next few years, natural
disasters (like hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes) and man-made disasters (like cyber attacks
and terrorists attacks) will occur. To respond to these events, priority communications will be
required.
The NS/EP community is expected to use leading edge NGN technologies. The communications
industry estimates that 50% of the wireline access infrastructure used by the NS/EP community
in the next several years will be IP-based, rising to 80% by 2016 and to near 100% by 2020.
From the wireless access perspective, WPS is based on 2G GSM and CDMA circuit-switched
technologies. NS/EP users are upgrading to 3G and 4G devices today. Carriers indicate that the
2G technologies will be around to at least 2020 and that fallback from 3G or 4G to 2G can
occur. The mechanisms to ensure redirection from 3G to 2G have been developed, and are being
implemented with priority access for WPS users. Redirection from 4G has not been defined,
implemented nor tested. Without priority functions in the access network, the NS/EP
community’s priority communications will be at risk, since they depend on technology that is
expected to be decommissioned.
Figure 5.2-1 presents an example of what an NS/EP user on NGN access might experience if
priority services are not implemented in NGN access networks. In 2011 and 2012, an NS/EP
user has a small chance of encountering blocking on the access network, due to video and high-
bandwidth applications on the network from other public users. If the user’s call is initially
blocked, the user may need to make a few attempts to complete the call. As more public users
migrate to NGN access and as more video and high-bandwidth applications are present on the
NGN access, the likelihood of being blocked becomes greater and more attempts would be
25 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
needed to complete an NS/EP session. At some point in time, the likelihood of being blocked
becomes so great that the NS/EP service becomes non-functional from a user perspective.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
26 of 37
krowteN
sseccA
detsegnoC
hguorhT
gnitteG
fo
ytilibaborP
secivreS
ytiroirP
NGN
PE/SN
oN
htiW
100%
75%
50%
25%
Figure 5.2-1. Probability of Session Success without NS/EP Priority Services
The NCS has worked with the communications industry to keep NS/EP priority services viable
within the NGN. To date the initial phase of definition of priority service requirements
documents, modeling, prototyping, and standards efforts have been successfully completed
(which accounts for a significant part of WG7’s assigned tasks). WG7 believes the next phase to
develop and deploy priority voice, video and data communications in NGN access and core
networks will require substantial funding.
Figure 5.2-2 shows the NS/EP NGN activities to date, and projected activities for the 2011 and
2012 calendar year given current funding.The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Figure 5.2-2. NS/EP NGN Priority Services Activities
WG7 was tasked to develop a priority services implementation stratetgy. Using the WPS
program for the rapid development and deployment of new NS/EP functionality, the following
assumptions were used by WG7 to create a “best case” development and deployment schedule in
support of the implementation strategy:
• Initial operational capabilities for a technology using existing quality of service features
would take approximately two years to deploy fully (one year for analysis and
specification of the capabilities, and development and testing of the capabilities, and one
year for roll-out of the capabilities).
• Full operational capabilities for a technology with NS/EP-unique capabilities would take
three to five years to deploy fully (one year to 18 months for specification and
contracting with vendors, one year to 18 months for vendor development, and one year
to two years for roll-out of the capabilities across all NS/EP NGN Priority Services
providers.
• From a user perspective, voice, video and data services are needed immediately.
• Priority voice services are currently being rolled out in the three Interexchange Carriers
(IXCs). This activity is expected to continue.
27 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Given these assumptions, the “best case” schedule developed by WG7 for NS/EP NGN Priority
Services is:
• Priority voice communications in the IXC’s IP core is occurring now and is expected to
be deployed nationwide in the next several years.
• Development of priority communications for LTE access is expected to start in CY 2011
and be deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2016.
• Development of priority communication for wireline access is expected to start in CY
2011 and be deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2016.
• Development of priority data transport capabilities is expected to start in CY 2012 and be
deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2017.
• Development of priority communications for satellite access is expected to start in CY
2012 and be deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2017.
• Development of priority communications for WiMAX access is expected to start in CY
2012 and be deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2018.
• Development of priority video capabilities is expected to start in CY 2013 and be
deployed nationwide by the middle of CY 2018.
28 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
The above schedule portrays estimated need dates for supporting priority communications
during a pandemic. For each technology, initial capabilities would be deployed before
nationwide full operational capabilities. Because of this, the proposed schedule would need to be
vetted with the NCS, the communications industry and the NS/EP user community to ensure that
priority communications capabilities were being deployed as expediously as possible.
In addition to the above, the FCC, NCS and the communications industry should define how IP-
based services will be included in the TSP program.
WG7 was tasked to develop the expected costs associated with the implementation strategy.
Based on the above schedule, WG7 estimated “Rough Order of Magnitude” (ROM) costs for
development, deployment and maintenance of priority IP communications. These estimated
costs are $1.9 billion for the period 2011-2020. Estimated breakout of funding requirements are
shown below:
29 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Component Cost
Vendor Core Network Development $200 million
Vendor Wireline Access Development $250 million
Vendor Wireless Access Development $300 million
Service Provider Deployment $300 million
Service Provider OAMP Upgrades $100 million
Service Provider 10-year OAMP Costs $350 million
Security Hardening of NS/EP NGN Priority Services $400 million
These costs also include the day-to-day costs for operations, administration, maintenance, and
provisioning (OAMP) associated with these new technologies. In addition, it is assumed that
80% of the estimated $1.9 billion costs would be expended for development and deployment
during the first five years.
A key aspect in the development of NS/EP NGN Priority Services is the hardening of the
network components against cyber attacks. As a critical communications capability for
command and control during NS/EP events, the hardware associated with NS/EP NGN Priority
Services will be under constant attack by hackers trying to either bring down the service or to
gain access to the service to perform other attacks on U.S. critical infrastructures. Given the
capabilities of our enemies, including rogue nation-states and asymetrical threats from other bad
actors, the NS/EP NGN Priority Services must be designed to notify Service Providers of an
attack while holding off the attack until the attack can be countered (i.e., a firedoor versus a
firewall strategy). It addition, since rogue actors may have the ability to take over network
components during an attack, the NS/EP NGN Priority Services must be designed to work in a
compromised environment and ensure that basic communication functions can continue.
Because of this, the hardware and networks supporting NS/EP NGN Priority Services must be
continually monitored for attacks.
The WG7-estimated ROM costs would need to be vetted and refined by the Government so that
a realistic budget can be created for developing, deploying, operating and maintaining NS/EP
NGN Priority Services.
User Costs and Penetration Rate of GETS, WPS and NS/EP NGN Priority Services
For the duration of the pandemic, up to 15 million mission-critical personnel may require
priority communications. These mission-critical personnel represent approximately 5 percent of
the population of the U.S. Multiple issues must be addressed in order to expand the user base;
however, a key issue is the cost to the user of having the NS/EP NGN Priority Service available.
Given tight budgets, many user organizations are sensitive to the costs associated with the WPS
service. These costs include an activation fee, a monthly service charge, and a per minute usage
charge. Because of the monthly service charge, some organizations activate WPS only after an
emergency has occurred, and deactive WPS when the emergency is over. Given the staffing
shortages expected during a pandemic event, this approach will most likely not be effective as
30 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
the pandemic progresses. Because of this, the NCS needs to meet with its user community and
the communications industry to establish suitable user costs for NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
Performance Metrics
The basis of existing and NGN priority services involves increasing the probability of call or
connection completion and maintenance in the presence of significant network congestion
caused by a natural or man-made crisis. Because of this, the team has identified three data
collection activities that would be practical and useful during a pandemic event and other NS/EP
events. Analysis of the data collected could subsequently be used to create performance metrics.
User Sign-Up Activity
During an NS/EP event, the NCS should report on a periodic basis the number of authenticated
normal and expedited (emergency) user sign-up requests received by the NCS and satisfied. It
should be noted that the process of signing up GETS and WPS users currently can be handled by
personnel that operate remotely from the NCS Service Center and the Integration Contractor
Network Management Operations Center (NMOC). This procedure has been used successfully
in the past for “surge” requirements outside of normal working hours.
TSP Activity
TSP is a program that authorizes NS/EP organizations to receive priority treatment for vital
voice and data circuits or other telecommunications services. As a result of hurricanes, floods,
earthquakes, and other natural or man-made disasters, telecommunications service vendors
frequently experience a surge in requests for new services and requirements to restore existing
services. The TSP Program provides service vendors an FCC mandate to prioritize requests by
identifying those services critical to NS/EP. A TSP assignment ensures that it will receive
priority attention by the service vendor before any non-TSP service.
During an NS/EP event, the service providers should report on a periodic basis the number of
TSP requests that have been satisfied and the number of TSP requests that have not been
satisfied. For unsatisfied requests, the service providers should provide an estimated time for
completion of the request and any additional information explaining the estimate.
Call Completion Rate
During an NS/EP event, the effectiveness of the High Probability of Completion (HPC) for
priority calls needs to be measured. During these events, currently the service providers submit
data on the call status. The NCS computes the call completion rate and performs follow-up event
analyses identifying underlying problems. These activities should continue during NS/EP
events.
31 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
5.3 Findings
Presented below are additional findings not found in the Gap Analysis (Section 5.2)
• Communication traffic will increase locally or regionally as the pandemic starts and will
ramp up nationwide as pandemic spreads.
• Traffic distribution will change within a region, with more residential traffic due to
telecommuting versus enterprise traffic.
• Performance Service Level Agreements (SLAs) (e.g., call completion at least x%) are
not appropriate for priority communications services, since legally, SLAs do not apply
during “Acts of God” and “Force Majeure,” where priority services are designed to
operate. NS/EP NGN Priority Services are not assured communications but a high
probability of completion (e.g., it may take several attempts to complete a call whereas
the general public will need 20+ attempts to complete). Carriers will provide reports
(including metrics and event analyses) on how well the service is performing as part of
their NS/EP Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAMP)
processes during the event. Real-time event analysis may be hindered due to staff
shortages and access to data during the event.
A number of critical activities must occur in order for priority communications to be available
during a pandemic event:
• The EOP and FCC must expand the criteria to allow Tier 1 and Tier 2 mission-critical
Critical Infrastructure personnel to apply for GETS cards and WPS service.
• The OMNCS and its member organizations must expand outreach activities to the NS/EP
community and the mission-critical infrastructure personnel community.
• Now that the definition phase of the priority capabilities is completed, the development
and deployment ROM cost estimates must be vetted with the NCS and the
communications industry.
• The NCS and the communications industry must estimate OAMP costs associated with
the larger priority communications user population.
• User costs must be vetted with the user community to determine penetration rates of
GETS, WPS and NS/EP NGN Priority Services among the NS/EP and Critical
Infrastructure personnel user community.
• Adequate funding must be provided to develop and deploy priority communications or,
as an option, this could be mandated by the FCC.
In the process of developing this report, the team reviewed the reports of the Convergence
32 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Working Group.17 This report was produced when IP deployment in carriers networks was just
starting and when wireless communication was in its second generation. The findings of the
report, presented in Appendix F, are still valid today.
5.4 Recommendations
The key WG7 recommendations are:
• The FCC should initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider a legal framework for
priority services in an IP-based NGN environment. The FCC must rule that IP priority
communications associated with NS/EP NGN Priority Voice, Video and Data Services
are legal across all NGN media. The FCC should consider legal and policy issues
(including its own jurisdiction) raised by the potential provision of emergency voice,
video and data services in the range of NGN media.
• The FCC should review its TSP authorization and determine if updates to its TSP
authorization are required for broadband.
• The FCC should clarify in its rules the White House criteria to qualify for NS/EP priority
service to be applied to Critical Infrastructure employees with mission-critical
responsibilities. This is to support the expanded user base identified in the National
Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) and Partnership for
Critical Infrastructure Security (PCIS) reports, In particular, to support Critical
Infrastructure employees, the Level 4 and Level 5 priorities should be changed from
“managing critical infrastructure activities” to “performing mandatory critical
infrastructure activities.”
• The FCC should continue its support of NS/EP priority communications. Specifically,
the FCC should work with the Executive and Legislative branches to heighten awareness
of the need for funding to support:
o The extension of GETS / WPS to support a significantly-expanded user
population.
o The transition of GETS / WPS from circuit-switched voice to NGN IP-based
voice, video and data. [This includes maintaining legacy circuit-switched priority
capabilities until 2020, and developing and maintaining new NS/EP NGN priority
capabilities as well as development of priority communications-related technical
standards within the various standards bodies.]
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and the
communications industry to ensure that they implement and deploy NS/EP NGN Priority
Services as quickly as possible given available funding.
17 Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP Telecommunications: Findings and
Recommendations, February 2002 [White House]
33 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and
sponsoring organizations to ensure that they enroll and train as many NS/EP and
mission-critical infrastructure personnel (as would be expected during a pandemic) on
the use of NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
In support of the key findings, WG7 also recommends that:
• The FCC update its PAS R&O 00-242 and TSP regulations to reflect the need for video
and data services.
• The FCC should work with the NCS and the communications industry to complete the
definition phase for IP priority capabilities by undertaking Phase 2 of the Core Industry
Requirements for broadband video and data as well as any interoperability criteria for
linking with the Access IRs. This is necessary for the vendors and service providers to
develop and deploy the NGN capabilities, and further in order to estimate funding
requirement.
• The FCC should work with key agencies to ensure adequate Government funding is
provided to complete priority communications development within the ATIS standards
for the incremental NS/EP NGN Priority Services requirements in support of IP carrier
network interconnect. Items to be addressed include, but are not limited to, priority
marking of packets (layer 2 and / or layer 3), security, identity management (of users,
service provider ID and authenticating carrier), and test suites for prototyping and
verification.
• The FCC should work with key agencies to ensure adequate Government funding is
provided to complete development within the 3GPP standards for the incremental NS/EP
NGN Priority Services requirements in support of priority access for LTE and relevant
extensions to IMS. Items to be addressed include, but are not limited to, priority
processing, security, identity management (of users, service provider ID and
authenticating carrier).
• The FCC should work with the communications industry (service providers and vendors)
to develop and deploy NS/EP NGN Priority Services based on standards in support of
core network, wireline access and wireless access as quickly as possible given available
funding. These standards are listed in Appendix C.
• The FCC should work with the NCS and the communications industry to estimate
OAMP costs associated with the larger priority communications user population.
Carriers need to ensure that their OAMP infrastructure can support the recommended
larger user base.
• The FCC should clarify to the communications industry how the NS/EP NGN Priority
Services fit into the FCC’s Broadband Plan.
34 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
• The FCC should work proactively with key government agencies and organizations to
ensure that the larger user base is sponsored, activated and using NS/EP NGN Priority
Services. Given the nature of a pandemic event, service provider resources may be
severely constrained during the event, limiting rapid response to ad hoc emergency
NS/EP NGN Priority Services requests.
• The FCC should work with Executive and Legislative branches to heighten awareness
and determine what legislative action, if any, is needed to assure access to NS/EP
telecommunication services, as these services come to include those based on non-PSTN
platforms, including currently unregulated networks and services.
• The FCC should work with the NCS to continue the vigorous pursuit, acceptance, and
implementation of the NS/EP NGN Priority Services within national and international
standards bodies, and that NCS member organizations and agencies continue to support
the NCS in its standards initiatives. In addition, the NCS should ensure that provisions
are included in the standards for access and egress for international ETS traffic.
• The FCC should encourage the NCS to continue to participate in the ATIS, and that the
communications industry be encouraged to perform internetwork interoperability testing
between packet networks and the PSTN before the evolving technologies are
significantly deployed within the packet network and NGN.
• The FCC should coordinate with the NCS on a yearly report regarding the available
NS/EP NGN Priority Services and provide an estimated schedule for future services.
This information is needed for agencies and organizations to realistically update their
disaster planning documents with regards to the use of priority communications.
6 Conclusions
During a pandemic event, the nation’s critical infrastructure will be stressed.
To allow the critical infrastructure to operate as effectively as possible during the pandemic, 15
million NS/EP users and mission-critical infrastructure personnel will have need for priority
communications.
Priority voice communications are not sufficient during the pandemic. Priority video and data
communications must be available.
If all priority communications capabilities are not available at the beginning of the pandemic,
communications will suffer, which may cause additional lives to be lost that could have been
saved. Equipment with priority communications functionality must be provisioned in the
network, and key communications personnel must be given priority medical treatment and be
trained to handle OAMP functions during a crisis.
Similarly, if all key personnel in the non-communications sectors are not trained and have not
35 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
become active NS/EP NGN Priority Services users, communications will suffer, which may
cause additional lives to be lost that could have been saved.
To prepare for a pandemic event, the following actions must be taken now:
• The FCC should initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider a legal framework for
priority services in an IP-based NGN environment. The FCC must rule that IP priority
communications associated with NS/EP NGN Priority Voice, Video and Data Services
are legal across all NGN media. The FCC should consider legal and policy issues
(including its own jurisdiction) raised by the potential provision of emergency voice,
video and data services in the range of NGN media.
• The FCC should review its TSP authorization and determine if updates to its TSP
authorization are required for broadband.
• The FCC should clarify in its rules the White House criteria to qualify for NS/EP priority
service to be applied to Critical Infrastructure employees with mission-critical
responsibilities. This is to support the expanded user base identified in the National
Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) and Partnership for
Critical Infrastructure Security (PCIS) reports, In particular, to support Critical
Infrastructure employees, the Level 4 and Level 5 priorities should be changed from
“managing critical infrastructure activities” to “performing mandatory critical
infrastructure activities.”
• The FCC should continue its support of NS/EP priority communications. Specifically,
the FCC should work with the Executive and Legislative branches to heighten awareness
of the need for funding to support:
o The extension of GETS / WPS to support a significantly-expanded user
population.
o The transition of GETS / WPS from circuit-switched voice to NGN IP-based
voice, video and data. [This includes maintaining legacy circuit-switched priority
capabilities until 2020, and developing and maintaining new NS/EP NGN priority
capabilities as well as development of priority communications-related technical
standards within the various standards bodies.]
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and the
communications industry to ensure that they implement and deploy NS/EP NGN Priority
Services as quickly as possible given available funding.
• The FCC should continue to provide legal and regulatory guidance to the NCS and
sponsoring organizations to ensure that they enroll and train as many NS/EP and
mission-critical infrastructure personnel (as would be expected during a pandemic) on
the use of NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
36 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group 7
Final Report - NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
7 Appendices
7.1 Appendix A – NGN IP Priority Services Requirements
7.2 Appendix B –NGN IP Implementation Strategy
7.3 Appendix C – Standards
7.4 Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
7.5 Appendix E – References
7.6 Appendix F – 2002 Recommendations Report NS/EP Network
Convergence
37 of 37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council's (CSRIC) mission is to
provide recommendations to the FCC to ensure, among other things, optimal security and
reliability of communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety.
Under the CSRIC structure the following is assigned to Working Group 7 (WG7).
WG7 Description: In the event of a major outbreak of infectious disease there will be a
tendency for large groups of people to telecommute to avoid clustering in common locations.
This migration from enterprise to residence will be difficult to plan for and may lead to
congestion in communications networks. The national security and emergency preparedness
(NS/EP) community has access to effective priority communications services that enable
members to complete emergency calls even during times when networks have sustained
considerable damage, and, thereby have limited capacity, and times of extreme congestion. The
primary systems are the government emergency telecommunications service (GETS) and
wireless priority service (WPS). These systems were designed to operate with circuit switched
networks. As the networks evolve toward internet protocol (IP) networks, and the NS/EP
community migrates to these networks and services, fewer and fewer members of the NS/EP
community will be able to rely on these priority services to complete their essential
communications. As a result, it is incumbent that network operators develop NS/EP priority
services for the next generation IP-based networks. To help with this development, the FCC
assigned the following tasks to the CSRIC WG7:
(1) Develop a NGN IP priority service requirements document that specifies the order of
magnitude of users, types of services covered (e.g., voice, data, video, others), number of levels
of priority, processes for authorizing priority access, performance standards/metrics, and
expected costs; and
(2) Develop a priority services implementation strategy (e.g., which types of service should be
rolled out first).
This document satisfies task (1).
A.1. The Impact of Pandemic Events
According to [HHS 1]:
Pandemics have occurred intermittently over centuries. The last three pandemics1, in
1918, 1957 and 1968, killed approximately 40 million, 2 million and 1 million people
worldwide, respectively. Although the timing cannot be predicted, history and science
suggest that we will face one or more pandemics in this century.
1 These were severe to moderate Pandemics; the 2009 H1N1 influenza Pandemic event occurred
after the 2005 report
A-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
It is impossible to know in advance whether a particular influenza virus, such as the
H1NI influenza of 2009 or the H5N1 virus, will lead to a human pandemic. The
widespread nature of H5N1 in birds and the likelihood of mutations over time have long
raised concerns that virus would become transmissible among humans, with potentially
catastrophic consequences.
According to [PCIS 1]:
A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report (Influenza Pandemic:
Sustaining Focus on the Nation’s Planning and Preparedness Efforts, GAO-09-334,
February 2009) concluded that preparing for a pandemic influenza outbreak or other
large-scale public health emergency remains an urgent priority requiring ongoing activity
for governments and businesses worldwide…
The Federal government has based its pandemic preparedness planning on assumption
from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). These planning assumptions include:
• The clinical disease attack rate will be 30% in the overall population during the
pandemic. Among working adults, an average of 20% will become ill during a
community outbreak.
• Rates of absenteeism will depend on the severity of the pandemic. In a severe
pandemic, absenteeism attributable to illness, the need to care for ill family members
and fear of infection may reach 40% during the peak weeks of a community
outbreak.
• Epidemics will last 6 to 8 weeks in affected communities
• Multiple waves of illness are likely to occur with each wave lasting 2 to 3 months.
In addition to direct medical consequences, a pandemic is expected to negatively impact
the economy. Workforce impacts are expected to be of primary concern, particularly for
critical infrastructure. Interruption of critical services at any point could lead to
cascading interruption of critical services at many points either up or down the supply
chain. Additional factors such as travel restrictions and quarantines in response to a
pandemic will limit mobility and could further disrupt global supply chains. It has been
predicted that the U.S. Gross Domestic Product may decrease by as much as 5% due to
potential disruptions to supply chains around the world.
The National Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIAC) identified interdependencies
among the sectors reflecting their relationships in provision of critical goods and
services. Figure 1, which was developed by NIAC with sector input, depicts the
relationships between sectors and the goal of sustaining national economic and social
stability. NIAC also has identified the numbers of “critical employees” by sector, based
on three tiers: Tier 1 signifies workers deemed most essential for continued business
operations; Tier 2 represents the next highest level of criticality; and Tier 3 includes
important, but not essential, employees. Figure 2 shows a breakdown by sector of
A-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
estimated numbers of Tier 1 and Tier 2 employees.
Figure 1. Sector Interdependencies
Figure 2: Critical Infrastructure Employees by Sector (from May 2009 PCIS
Report)
A-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
[PCIS 1] noted that 14 of the 16 critical infrastructure sectors believed they could continue to
provide critical services during a pandemic, while 2 sectors were uncertain, but provided
specific conditions under which they could continue to provide critical services. The report
noted that the critical infrastructure sectors are highly interdependent, which could have a major
impact on the provision of critical services during a pandemic. A key concern of the report was
the capacity of the Internet to handle increased traffic during a pandemic.
In 2007, more than 2,700 U.S. financial services organizations participated in a three-week
exercise simulating a severe global pandemic flu. The results of this exercise were documented
in [FBIIC 1]:
The scenario for this exercise posed a realistic picture of the possible systemic risks to
the sector and its dependencies on other critical infrastructures. Based on the findings of
this exercise, it appears that while there will be significant impacts to the financial
services sector, the sector overall will continue to operate and cope with these impacts.
This free and voluntary exercise provided organizations from the banking, insurance and
markets (securities and derivatives) industries, as well as financial utilities, trade
associations, and regulators, an opportunity to assess their pandemic plans against a
rigorous and detailed scenario. The scenario was developed by a team of technical
experts from diverse disciplines that few organizations have the ability to tap on their
own.
The exercise was designed to use progressive absenteeism rates – reaching as high as 49
percent – to stress the contingency plans of participating organizations. Critical
infrastructures that the financial services sector relies on were also stressed during the
exercise to simulate likely degradation in available services.
Based on the exercise results, it is apparent that financial organizations of different sizes
have different needs and responses to the challenges posed by a potential pandemic flu
epidemic. The participating organizations ranged in size from very small – less than 250
employees – to the largest institutions in the country – with more than 100,000
employees. For example, while high rates of absenteeism would be a universal problem
during a pandemic flu, large organizations plan to rely more heavily on telecommuting,
while small and medium organizations are more likely to use social-distancing strategies
such as staggered shifts, personal space limitations, and personal protective equipment
(PPE). The exercise findings indicated that although many organizations included
telecommuting as part of their plans for social distancing, relatively few employees
telecommuted during the exercise. Testing of computer systems used for telecommuting
by staff performing critical functions remains an issue, with large and medium
organizations reporting that they have done so for less than half of such staff, and most
small organizations reporting having done so for less than 5 percent of such staff.
Communications strategies for customers, employees, and suppliers are another widely
recognized component of pandemic plans. In addition to the effects at individual
A-4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
organizations, the issue of dependency on other sectors, such as transportation,
telecommunications, and energy, was a key component of the exercise.
In examining the exercise results, it is apparent that the financial sector’s pandemic
response planning involves a layered approach incorporating social distancing
techniques, telecommuting, cross-training, communication to employees and customers,
and distribution of PPE, as well as special arrangements with service providers.
According to [DHS 1], DHS developed a model in 2007 to analyze the relationship between a
pandemic spread, network user behavior, and network performance. The model was used to
quantify the impact of a pandemic on the communications infrastructure. [DHS 1] identified the
following key findings:
• Pandemic Parameters – Pandemic disease parameters can significantly change the peak
network user population
• Best Practices – In many pandemic scenarios, a high rate of compliance with all
communications and IT best practices can enable the telecommuting strategy to succeed.
In particular, limiting video traffic appears to have a large impact.
• Worst Case – Potential pandemic scenarios exist that indicate a high risk for Internet
congestion. These include high absenteeism pandemic scenarios (i.e., large home
network user population) and low compliance with communications and IT best
practices.
According to [DHS 1]:
The uniques features of a pandemic outbreak in the U.S. cannot be accurately predicted
in advance. The specific pandemic parameteres, quarantine decisions, and human
behavior may not be realized until an actual pandemic. From the telecommuting
perspective, the most important parameter is the absenteeism level that causes the change
in home network user population. For the existing commercial communications
infrastructure without any additional preparations, it is concluded that:
• In a low absenteeism pandemic scenario, the telecommuting strategy is
anticipated to be successful for the majority of telecommuters.
• In a 40 percent absenteeism scenario, the telecommuting strategy is expected to
be significantly impacted for most telecommuters during the peak of the
pandemic.
In the short term, communications and IT best practices have been identified that can
better prepare the telecommuting strategy to succeed. Key takeaways from the best
practices include:
• Enterprise Networks – Businesses should use 40 percent as a guideline, but
should assess their particular telecommuting needs for a pandemic situation and
size their remote user capabilites appropriately.
• Telecommuters – Employees who plan to telecommute during a pandemic and
are truly critical to business operations should not rely on best effort, residential
A-5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
Internet access.
• General Public – Limiting non-critical recreational traffic, particularly during
day time work hours, will be key to enabling the pandemic telecommuting
strategy to succeed.
• Network Service Providers – Network service providers will also be affected by
the spread of a pandemic and will be operating with a reduced workforce. This
will likely limit their ability to respond to any surge in traffic and provision new
capacity.
As can be seen from the above references, communications will play a critical role during a
pandemic event.
A.2. Existing NCS Programs
A.2.1. Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS)
The Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) provides emergency access
and priority processing in the local and long distance segments of the public switched wireline
network. GETS is used in an emergency or crisis situation during which the probability of
completing a voice call over normal or other alternate telecommunication means has
significantly decreased.
GETS is a major National Communications System (NCS) program for providing NS/EP
telecommunications. GETS supports authorized users in the event of natural or manmade
disasters up through early post-nuclear attack. GETS provides users with an end-to-end,
switched voice telephone service that can be used for clear voice,encrypted secure voice,
facsimile, and low speed data services using the surviving facilities of the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN). End-to-end is defined to be from the originating caller's Local
Exchange Carrier (LEC) end office (EO) to the destination EO. GETS provides routing
alternatives and traffic management features that do not exist for normal PSTN calls. GETS is
accessible from virtually anywhere in the world and is capable of using all major U.S. LEC and
cellular carrier facilities, and Inter-Exchange Carrier (IXC) facilities. GETS interoperates with
selected Government networks, e.g., Defense Switched Network (DSN), Diplomatic
Telecommunications Service (DTS), and Federal Technology Service (FTS). GETS also
provides the capability for international inbound and outbound access.
A.2.2. Special Routing Arrangement Service (SRAS)
The Special Routing Arrangement Service (SRAS) provides selected Government users with
priority telecommunications service, within the public telecommunications infrastructure, that
supports the requirements of Presidential Decision Directive 67 [PDD 67]2 and Executive
Orders 12472, 12656 and 13231 [EO 12472], [EO 12656], and [EO 13231]. SRAS is intended
to ensure telecommunications support is provided with the highest likelihood practical during all
conditions, particularly during conditions of severe network disruption as may result from acts
of war.
2 Note that PDD 67 has been superseded by NSPD 51 / HSPD 20.
A-6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
SRAS calls are given improved call routing and completion probability over standard PSTN
calls during periods of PSTN congestion and/or disruption. SRAS also provides anonymity of
called and calling parties.
A.2.3. Wireless Priority Service (WPS)
The Wireless Priority Service (WPS) provides priority cellular network access. The WPS was
approved by the FCC for NS/EP requirements on a call-by-call priority basis. The NCS executes
the program on behalf of the Executive Office of the President (EOP). Only individuals in
NS/EP key leadership positions and other critical persons are authorized use of WPS. WPS is
based upon, and complies with, the FCC Second Report and Order (R&O) 00-242 (Wireless
Telecommunications (WT) Docket No. 96-86) [FCC 1].
WPS is available to qualified and authorized Service Users at all times in equipped markets
where the cellular service provider has voluntarily decided to provide the service. Access to
WPS is limited to pre-subscribed mobile handsets registered to those with NS/EP leadership
responsibilities and other critical persons. WPS is not intended for use by all emergency service
personnel.
WPS is invoked on a per call basis using WPS dialing procedures. WPS does not preempt
established calls in progress; rather, WPS, using five priority levels, provides priority access to
radio traffic channels for Service Users making WPS requests. WPS also provides priority
progression through networks involved with the call including priority access to terminating
radio traffic channels.
The Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 provides wireless carriers with the
same protection from liability under Federal and State law as wireline carriers, especially with
regard to providing priority access to NS/EP personnel for making emergency calls.
Service Users identify their own need for and make their own requests for WPS priority
assignments in a planned process, not waiting until an emergency has occurred. Service Users
request WPS assignments for the lowest applicable priority level necessary to provide NS/EP
telecommunications management and response functions during emergency / disaster situations.
NCS assigns Service Users with the lowest applicable priority level. The applicable priority is
then be provisioned in the Service Provider network.
A WPS applicant is assigned one of five priority levels (1, 2, 3, 4, or 5), with 1 being the highest
priority level and 5 being the lowest priority level. The five priority levels, as defined in [FCC
1], are described in the table below. The qualifying criteria are representative examples of the
types of users within each priority level.
Priority Responsibility Qualifying Criteria
Level
1 Executive Users who qualify for the Executive Leadership and Policy
Leadership and Makers priority will be assigned Priority 1. A limited number of
Policy Makers CMRS technicians who are essential to restoring the CMRS
A-7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
networks may also receive this highest priority treatment.
2 Disaster Users who qualify for the Disaster Response/Military Command
Response / and Control priority will be assigned Priority 2. Individuals
Military eligible for Priority 2 include personnel key to managing the
Command and initial response to an emergency at the local, State, regional and
Control Federal levels. Personnel selected for this priority should be
responsible for ensuring the viability or reconstruction of the basic
infrastructure in an emergency area. In addition, personnel
essential to the continuity of government and national security
functions (e.g., conducting international affairs and intelligence
activities) are included.
3 Public Health, Users who qualify for the Public Health, Safety, and Law
Safety, and Law Enforcement Command priority will be assigned Priority 3.
Enforcement Eligible for this priority are individuals who direct operations
Command critical to life, property, and maintenance of law and order
immediately following an event.
4 Public Services/ Users who qualify for the Public Services/Utilities and Public
Utilities and Welfare priority will be assigned Priority 4. Eligible for this
Public Welfare priority are those users whose responsibilities include managing
public works and utility infrastructure damage assessment and
restoration efforts and transportation to accomplish emergency
response activities.
5 Disaster Users who qualify for the Disaster Recovery priority will be
Recovery assigned Priority 5. Eligible for this priority are those individuals
responsible for managing a variety of recovery operations after
the initial response has been accomplished
Information in this table is extracted from FCC R&O 00-242 (WT Docket No. 96-86)
A.2.4. Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP)
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) provides service vendors with a Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) mandate for prioritizing service requests by identifying
those services critical to NS/EP. A telecommunications service with a TSP assignment is
assured of receiving full attention for provisioning and / or restoral by the service vendor before
a non-TSP service.
A.3. Order of Magnitude of Users
In 2008, the NCS conducted a study to determine the potential NS/EP user population. The
results of this study were published in a paper Future Service Plan White Paper, National
Security/Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) User Population in November 2008. According to
this report, the Census Bureau estimated the US population at the start of 2007 at 300.9 million
people. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimated 146.0 million in the civilian workforce,
and the Department of Defense reported 1.4 million in the active military. A review of workers
by category was conducted using these statistics. The BLS data is organized for major
employment sectors as defined by the North American Industry Classification System. For each
A-8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
sector, the number of workers in specific occupational categories viewed as having a high
likelihood of NS/EP responsibilities, due to an NS/EP leadership or key position, was estimated.
The results show an estimated potential NS/EP user population of about 1.6 million. To
accommodate future growth, the NCS rounded the potential NS/EP user population to 2 million.
It should be noted that this user population of two million only consists of members of the
traditional NS/EP community (e.g., first responder management, officials of various
governments, and industry and community leaders) but not of other critical personnel who might
require network access during a pandemic. In addition, the following summary results are
applicable to the WG7 analysis.
• The NS/EP user population that may need and qualify for priority services may be as
large as 2,000,000. For a major city with a population of 2,000,000, the corresponding
qualified NS/EP user community would be about 11,000, and for a city of 250,000, the
qualified NS/EP user community would be about 1,400. This estimate is independent of
the migration of GETS (including WPS) to the NGN.
• The PSTN peak hour saturated capacity is estimated at .8 billion calls per hour.
Assuming a very high rate of NS/EP user calling compared to experience to date,
combined with an NS/EP population of 2,000,000, up to 11.2 million event hour calls
could be generated. This level of NS/EP use in an event hour would be about 1.4% of
total PSTN capacity. Since GETS has been modeled and tested with satisfactory
performance at up to ten percent of PSTN capacity, it appears at a macro level that GETS
can readily accommodate the increased user population.
• Considering the distribution of traffic, and the corresponding implications of
concentration, selected PSTN resources may see more than 1.4% use by NS/EP traffic.
In the case of GETS, if 80% of NS/EP traffic is assumed to be landline, and if 80% of the
traffic is concentrated on 20% of the switches, then the demand on an individual End
Office (EO) switch could reach 9.0% of its call processing capacity, or about the limit
modeled and tested with satisfactory results. In the case of WPS, if 80 percent of all
NS/EP traffic is assumed to be wireless and 80% of the traffic is concentrated on 20% of
the Mobile Switching Centers (MSCs), then the increased concentration could cause the
NS/EP use at particular MSC to reach about 7.3% of its call processing capacity,
reasonably less than the limit modeled to give acceptable performance with minimal
impact to the public. Because the use assumptions are very conservative, it is likely that
GETS, WPS and NS/EP NGN Priority Services can accommodate growth to 2,000,000
NS/EP users with imperceptible impact on the public.
• The high concentration of government employment in the Washington, District of
Columbia (DC) area will likely cause a higher than average percentage of the population
to be NS/EP users. Similarly, the high concentration of non-government executives in
the New York City (NYC) area also will likely cause a higher than average percentage of
the population to be NS/EP users. Examination of both these areas indicates that their
high NS/EP concentrations combined with the very conservative (i.e., high) estimates of
NS/EP demand are still well within the estimated NS/EP capacity. However, a
concentration of 80% of the NS/EP demand on 20% of the resources within the area may
A-9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
cause NS/EP demand to exceed the estimated NS/EP capacity (i.e., as much as 13.7% vs.
10% in the most extreme case of Washington, DC). This result suggests that particular
attention should be given to monitoring use in these areas as the services mature to
determine if there is a need to administratively limit the number of users.
• An increase in the user population would increase the Operation, Administration,
Maintenance and Planning (OAM&P) costs3 (and thus the overall program costs), while
decreasing the program costs on a per-user basis. An increase of 13 fold in user
population (i.e., from 150,000 to 2,000,000) would increase overall program costs by
45%, resulting in a 10-fold improvement in the cost-per-user ratio. The OAM&P costs
are a small portion of the total program cost, and thus a large relative increase in user
population is coupled with a much smaller relative increase in overall program cost.
It is important to note that the above findings from the population report only reflect voice
services, and not the data and video services that would be required during a pandemic event.
In January 2007, a report entitled NSTAC Report to the President on Emergency
Communications and Interoperability was released in response to the issues highlighted during
the Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma recovery efforts. Section 3.3.1 of that report discussed
support of a significantly expanded user base. That section stated:
While disaster preparedness and response to most incidents remains a State and local
responsibility, recent events have demonstrated the need for greater integration and
synchronization of preparedness efforts among a dynamically expanding user base
beyond traditional first responders, such as public safety, National Guard personnel,
critical infrastructure providers, NS/EP users, and public health system users.
Capabilities and approaches that are scalable to meet the needs of a potentially
significantly expanded user base of approximately 8-10 million emergency responders
must be investigated. Users embrace technology preferences that have evolved to support
missions and roles and provide an ease of use gained through a user’s experience with
such systems and technologies. Interoperability is essential across these technologies and
their underlying network assets. Solutions need to empower existing technologies rather
than provide users with new devices or capabilities in the heat of an emergency. Users
need to be able to turn to the “trusted” solutions with which they are familiar.
Current emergency communications processes focus primarily on traditional first
responders (fire, police, and EMT (sic4)), with primary interest in voice communications.
During the first few hours of a major regional or local emergency, the communications
of “first responders” are vitally important in saving lives and coordinating response
actions, and the bulk of these have historically been voice communications. As the
emergency continues to unfold and response actions proceed, additional types of
responders become increasingly important in coordinating response and recovery. This
broader range of organizations and individuals play critical roles in response and
3 Only OAM&P costs increase to support the larger user population; technology and deployment
costs are fixed.
4 The proper term would be EMS for Emergency Medical Services.
A-10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
recovery. This population totals approximately 8-10 million users nationally and
encompasses the following representatives:
• 2.5 million First Responders (Police, Fire, EMT (sic));
• National Response and Federal Response Plan users;
• National Incident Management System (NIMS) users;
• NS/EP users;
• Federal Agencies with Public Safety, Investigation, and Asset Protection
Missions, for example Federal Law Enforcement, Transportation Security,
Border Security, and the FEMA;
• Critical Infrastructure owners, operators, decision makers;
• Key municipal leadership and decision makers;
• Military Support, for example U.S. Northern Command and the National Guard;
• Public health systems, for example hospitals, the Red Cross, and the Center for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); and
• Licensed Amateur radio operators.
Another way to characterize the emergency communications and interoperability user
base is to clarify what types of organizations these individuals represent, including more
than 100,000 organizations comprised of the following:
• 19,000 law enforcement offices and agencies;
• 33,000+ fire and rescue organizations5;
• 7,500+ Public Safety Access Points (PSAP’s) handing 911 and similar services;
• 8,000+ public–health departments;
• 5,600 hospital emergency departments;
• 5,000+ critical-care facilities;
• 1,000+ emergency management departments;
• Private–Sector Non-Governmental Organizations;
• Public works and transportation officials;
• Federal agency response coordination officials, for example the DHS, the
Department of Health and Human Services, and the CDC; and
• State and Municipal leadership (Governors, Mayors, and other key municipal
leaders and decision makers).
Emergency communications solutions must be able to serve these expanded populations
of users, including providing interoperability among the differing technologies that these
users and organizations use and prefer. Interoperability must be improved today, taking
advantage of the rapid evolution of emerging technologies while ensuring
interoperability with existing communications capabilities. A more formal understanding
of the specific services, requirements, and technical characteristics associated with
5 This number does not reflect the totality of EMS providers. While the 33,000 fire and rescue
services represent about half of the EMS providers in the U.S., the other half are employed by
agencies that are not fire-based.
A-11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
emergency communications is required to better leverage existing and future
communications capabilities.
With the ubiquity of multi-function wireless devices such as phones and PDAs,
individuals can capture voice, imagery, and textual descriptions of the “on-the-ground”
situation. In some instances, circumstances may enable ordinary citizens to assist with
emergency response or emergency–alerting roles; designers of emergency
communications architectures should contemplate how these systems might scale,
contend with, and support inputs from these ad hoc participants, particularly in critical
circumstances.
In May 2009, the Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security (PCIS) published a report
entitled Addressing the Pandemic Influenza Threat: Cross-Sector Readiness Assessment. The
report stated that the National Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIAC) identified the numbers of
“critical employees” by sector with the goal of sustaining national economic and social stability
during a pandemic event. The NIAC identified three tiers of employees: Tier 1 signifies workers
deemed most essential for continued business operations; Tier 2 represents the next highest level of
criticality; and Tier 3 includes important, but not essential, employees. The estimated number of Tier
1 and Tier 2 employees is shown below; this figure is taken from the PCIS report.
Critical Infrastructure Employees by Sector (from May 2009 PCIS report)
The difference between the 10 million users identified in the NSTAC report and the 15 million
users identified in the PCIS report is the inclusion of critical personnel, including accounting and
payroll personnel, necessary to keep organizations running during the pandemic.
These 15 million Tier 1 and Tier 2 CI employees would need priority communications sometime
during a pandemic in order to perform their jobs. This population is 7.5 times larger than the
traditional NS/EP population.
Besides the overall population estimate, it is important to know the number of simultaneously
A-12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
active users during the event in order to engineer the required support for priority
communications. Experience with voice communications during previous disaster recovery
events shows that the duration of priority calls is approximately three minutes, the same as for
normal calls. With calls of this duration, the number of simultaneously active voice users is
estimated to be no more than 350,000 (i.e., around two percent of the overall priority
communications population of 15 million).
Priority video communications is expected to have holding times on the order of an hour. In
addition, it is expected that priority video will be used by Government leadership coordinating
the response to the pandemic. Using this assumption, the number of simultaneously active video
users is estimated to be no more than 100,000 (i.e., less than one percent of the overall priority
communications population).
Priority data communications is expected to have holding times on the order of hours, especially
during a pandemic event. WG7 estimates that a significant portion of this population of this
population could be actively using priority data communications at any point during the height
of the pandemic.
WG7 recommends that the above estimates be vetted by the NCS with Industry and the user
community.
A.4. Types of Services Covered
As was noted in NSTAC Report to the President on Emergency Communications and
Interoperability, “Users embrace technology preferences that have evolved to support missions
and roles and provide an ease of use gained through a user’s experience with such systems and
technologies. Interoperability is essential across these technologies and their underlying network
assets. Solutions need to empower existing technologies rather than provide users with new
devices or capabilities in the heat of an emergency. Users need to be able to turn to the “trusted”
solutions with which they are familiar.”
Because of this, the role of NS/EP NGN Priority Services should be to provide users a simple
means to request and obtain priority communications using their existing devices. Three types of
NS/EP NGN Priority Services are proposed: NS/EP NGN Priority Voice Service, NS/EP NGN
Priority Video Service, and NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport Service.
A user can be provided continuity of Legacy GETS and WPS voice telephony service, both in
terms of service effectiveness and service invocation methods. NS/EP NGN Priority Voice
Service will be similar to the corresponding public voice service, but with priority treatment
when properly invoked. The user must be able to use the same devices for NS/EP NGN Voice
Service as used for public voice service and should interact with the service in the same manner
as for public voice service interaction.
NS/EP NGN Priority Video Service does not currently exist; when implemented, it will be based
on a corresponding Service Provider’s public video service. The public video service is
expected to enable its subscribers to originate a request to the network to establish a video
A-13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
session with a destination party. The manner of request origination may be similar to a voice
call or may involve more data-oriented methods. The network will determine if the request can
be honored with acceptable Quality of Service (QoS) for video, and the request will be honored
or rejected accordingly. If the network honors the request, the originating and destination
parties’ devices will effect appropriate session negotiations and the session will be established.
The network will ensure the session is sustained with the acceptable QoS for video until a user
releases the session.
It should be noted that point-to-point video communications will also be possible by establishing
an NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport Service between two endpoints.
NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport Service does not currently exist; when implemented, it will
be based on a corresponding Service Provider’s public managed data service. A user will invoke
NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport to achieve a high likelihood of successful data packet
transport even when transport of public user data packets is severely degraded. NS/EP NGN
Priority Data Transport will be a generic packet priority transport service that applies
independently of the specific data application being used. By invoking the Priority Data
Transport service, a user will request the network to give priority treatment to selected data
packets to and from the user’s device. At a minimum, the priority treatment will apply to data
packet transport in both directions through the access network of the Service Provider serving
the user who invokes NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport, and from the access network across
the Service Provider’s other contiguous network segments over which the data transport is
routed to its destination. It is desirable that the priority treatment will apply in both directions
for packet flows initiated by the User throughout the data packet path from source to destination.
In some cases, it may not be technically feasible to ensure that packets sent from the destination
to the Service User receive priority treatment throughout the data packet path unless the
destination invokes (or has invoked) NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport.
When a Service User invokes NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport, priority treatment will be
provided to the signaling necessary to recognize and authorize the service invocation and to all
subsequent data packets transmitted and received until the user cancels the service. It is
desirable that the NS/EP NGN Priority Data Transport be cancelled if there are no data packets
transmitted or received for a specified time, (e.g., via a timeout function).
It should be noted that Priority Data Transport does not guarantee that a user will receive a
reasonable response from the server being accessed by the user. Because of this, during a
pandemic event public servers (e.g., CNN web server, SMS server) may become overloaded and
unresponsive to users of the Priority Data Transport service. Agencies and organizations are
responsible for ensuring that their “private” servers are sized appropriately for access during a
pandemic event.
A.5. Process for Authorizing Priority Access
The current NCS procedures for enrolling users in GETS and WPS will be modified to support
the additional NS/EP NGN Priority Services. The following is a description of the enrollment
process and how a user would access the NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
A-14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix A – NGN IP Service Requirements
Users will enroll in NS/EP NGN Priority Services in order to be authorized for its use. The NCS
will provide the means for users to submit their qualifications for enrollment. If the NCS
determines the user is qualified, the NCS will enroll the user, assigning the Service User one of
five user priority levels (1-5), with one (1) being the highest priority. The NCS will store this
information in a secure database and convey to the Service Providers the data necessary for them
to provide the authorized priority service(s) to the specified Service User. In some cases, this
will be information specific to an individual, such as a card with a Personal Identification
Number (PIN) or smart card, that is independent of the immediate device the Service User will
us. For example, a GETS PIN will allow a GETS Service User to place a GETS call from any
phone by providing the PIN during an authorization sequence. The NCS will provide that card,
smart card, or other physical authentication device to the Service User to use when invoking the
service. In other cases, a modification to an existing service subscription will be necessary. For
example, WPS is a feature that is activated on an existing cellular account and is invoked by
entering *272 before the entering destination number. It will only work on the device related to
that cellular subscription. In these cases, the NCS will give to the service provider the necessary
information to modify the appropriate account with the new priority service information. Once
it has received confirmation from the service provider, the NCS will advise the Service User that
the service is available and provide instructions on how to invoke that service.
A Service User may be qualified by the NCS for all NS/EP NGN Priority Services or only a
subset of the services. The services for which a Service User is NCS approved will be indicated
as part of the Service User's profile maintained by the NCS.
Service Users will expect the processing of their qualifications by the NCS to be expedient, and
once accepted as qualified, for their enrollment to be reflected expeditiously in the Service
Provider’s GETS database. The NCS will work with Service Providers to establish normal and
expedited procedures for approving and activating priority services.
A-15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix B – NGN IP Services Implementation Strategy
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council's (CSRIC) mission is to
provide recommendations to the FCC to ensure, among other things, optimal security and
reliability of communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety.
Under the CSRIC structure the following is assigned to Working Group 7 (WG7).
WG7 Description: In the event of a major outbreak of infectious disease there will be a
tendency for large groups of people to telecommute to avoid clustering in common locations.
This migration from enterprise to residence will be difficult to plan for and may lead to
congestion in communications networks. The national security and emergency preparedness
(NS/EP) community has access to effective priority communications services that enable
members to complete emergency calls even during times when networks have sustained
considerable damage, and, thereby have limited capacity, and times of extreme congestion. The
primary systems are the government emergency telecommunications service (GETS) and
wireless priority service (WPS). These systems were designed to operate with circuit switched
networks. As the networks evolve toward internet protocol (IP) networks, and the NS/EP
community migrates to these networks and services, fewer and fewer members of the NS/EP
community will be able to rely on these priority services to complete their essential
communications. As a result, it is incumbent that network operators develop NS/EP priority
services for the next generation IP-based networks. To help with this development, the FCC
assigned the following tasks to the CSRIC WG7:
(1) Develop a NGN IP priority service requirements document that specifies the order of
magnitude of users, types of services covered (e.g., voice, data, video, others), number of levels
of priority, processes for authorizing priority access, performance standards/metrics, and
expected costs; and
(2) Develop a priority services implementation strategy (e.g., which types of service should be
rolled out first).
This document satisfies task (2).
Strategy
Implementation Strategy for Consideration
Within the current networks supporting Government Emergency Telephone System (GETS) and
Wireless Priority Service (WPS), there are numerous options for consideration as viable
implementation strategies. These would include continuing support to migrate current legacy
GETS to NS/EP NGN Priority Services, encouraging ISP and other IP-based service providers
to implement NS/EP NGN Priority Services in their access networks to interwork with IXCs
supporting these services, and continuing to drive standards bodies to further develop detail
interface standards between IP-based access networks and IXC supported core networks.
In supporting the migration of legacy GETS to NS/EP NGN Priority Services, the primary factor
in the implementation strategy is continued funding and support to replace legacy GETS with a
system that is able to support IP-based priority services, including future needs to support video
B-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix B – NGN IP Services Implementation Strategy
and data services. Service providers are beginning to plan and implement NS/EP NGN voice
services but continuing support and funding will be required to fully deploy technology
supporting a set of priority services beyond voice. Video and data priority services are important
in any emergency event, but in a pandemic event having these services will be critical to all
agencies and teams attempting to neutralize the event.
The convergence of IP-telephony using IP access networks, e.g., Digital subscriber Line (DSL),
Broadband and Ethernet Passive Optical Networks, Cable Access Networks and Long Term
Evolution (LTE), is evolving and in many cases has been implemented. However, many of these
access technologies do not support or have limited support for NS/EP NGN Priority Services. To
facilitate a seamless end-to-end priority session (voice, data, video), implementing a common
interface between NS/EP NGN Priority Service, service providers and the IP-based Access
Networks is critical. Without this common interface, traffic in the Access Networks will NOT
have any call processing priority. It’s conceivable that during an emergency event where GETS
traffic needs to have a high probability for completion, the GETS traffic will be subjected to the
same level of service as non-GETS traffic. As noted in the NS/EP NGN Priority Services
implementation strategy above, IXCs are beginning to implement NS/EP NGN Priority Services
within their core networks, but if the Access Networks aren’t able to handle priority calls, it is
conceivable that these calls will be lost. Implementation of a set of priority services in the
Access Networks will increase the probability of call completion of NS/EP NGN Priority
Services traffic during an event, including a pandemic event.
Of critical importance to this implementation strategy is support from the standards bodies to
develop technical standards defining the common interfaces between the core NS/EP NGN
Priority Services Service Providers and that of the IP-Based Access Service Providers. There are
Access IRs that define common interworking between the two network types but the technical
interface standards have not been completely defined. Without the technical standards it will be
difficult for Access Networks Providers to support priority services, and difficult for Access
Networks and Core Networks to interact when an NS/EP NGN Priority Services call is
originated on the Access Network or it needs to be terminated to the Access Network. Well-
defined standards are used for the Core NS/EP NGN Priority Services networks but standards
for the Access Networks to handle hand NS/EP NGN Priority Services traffic are still being
finalized.
As defined in Section 5 of this document and in the technical appendices, the majority of the
reference information are high-level documents but little is available on what is required for
interoperability of IXCs core networks with IP-based Access Networks. It is important to the
overall implementation strategy that networks providing NS/EP NGN Priority Services be
supported with capabilities to support end-to-end priority services control using same type
priority mechanisms as currently under development for the core network. The key standards
used to build the NS/EP NGN Priority Services are included in Appendix C of this report.
Costs
Implementation Costs
There are two primary costs categories for implementing the recommendations of this report: 1)
B-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix B – NGN IP Services Implementation Strategy
Costs to modify/augment current Access Networks hardware and software to support NS/EP
NGN Priority Services call processing, and; 2) Costs to augment hardware and develop software
in the Core NS/EP NGN Priority Services networks.
The modification and/or augmentation of the Access Networks to support the implementation
plan are divided into four categories: 1) cost of hardware, 2) cost of software, 3) cost of
interoperability testing with other networks, and 4) cost of implementation. All of these cost
components need to be carefully evaluated by each of the access providers. A costing model can
be developed, but only after a clear understanding of interest level, including support of
recommendations made in this report, availability of standards and requirements, and
implementation plan agreements.
The costs associated with the modification of the Core networks will follow the same process as
defined for the Access Networks. Because the Core NS/EP NGN Priority Services networks are
well defined and supported by detailed standards, there is consensus that the cost impact will be
less than the costs associated with upgrading the Access Networks to support NS/EP NGN
Priority Services.
B-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
This Appendix paraphrases information that is described in more detail in various Industry
Requirements (IRs) and other relevant standards/specifications. It is provided as information to
support NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services (i.e., the U.S. Government’s
Emergency Telecommunications Service (ETS)). In addition, this Appendix briefly describes
information on the ATIS PTSC, 3GPP, and IETF SDOs that are addressing standards and
specifications related to ETS. Other SDOs (e.g., ITU-T, 3GPP2) also addressing ETS
functionality are not covered in this Appendix.
C.1 Standards Development Organizations
This clause presents background information on the ATIS PTSC, 3GPP, and IETF SDOs that
are addressing standards and specifications related to ETS.
C.1.1 ATIS Packet Technologies and Systems Committee (PTSC)
ATIS PTSC develops standards and technical reports for communications networks (e.g., Next
Generation Network) and wireline access networks in the U.S. ATIS PTSC reviews and prepares
contributions on such matters for submission to the appropriate U.S. preparatory body for
consideration as ITU contributions or for submission to other domestic and regional standards
organizations. Currently, the work of the PTSC focuses mainly on services, architectures,
signaling and control protocols, security and Identity Management (IdM) for NGN and wireline
access networks, in addition to related subjects under consideration in other North American and
international standards bodies. The PTSC also reviews for acceptability the positions of other
countries in related standards development, and takes or recommends appropriate actions. It uses
the ITU-T specifications, as appropriate, to enhance the US standards. The PTSC liaises and
works with other ATIS groups (e.g., Network Performance, Reliability and Quality of Service
Committee (PRQC)), the IETF, and other SDOs, as needed.
In support of ETS, the PTSC is the main group developing the full end-to-end specifications for
ETS in the US, including the service descriptions, call flows, network element
protocol/procedures, network interconnections, and security for the PSTN and NGN.
Standards enhancement supporting the NGN GETS IRs that are related to the Core Network
(e.g., ETS priority mechanisms and procedures in the SIP, Diameter, and H.248 protocols),
wireline access network, and the overarching NGN GETS standard for end-to-end call flows are
being addressed in the PTSC. This includes standards enhancement related to security and IdM
for ETS support in NGN. For ETS, the PTSC will continue to specify at a high level the service
description, IP-based NGN requirements, PSTN to NGN interworking, core network elements
requirements, and wireline access network elements requirements, in alignment with the [IMS
Core IR] and [Wireline IR].
For the core network, the ATIS PTSC standards and technical reports build on the IMS model
and specifications of 3GPP, affecting the [IMS Core IR] and the access network IRs, including
the [Wireline IR].
C.1.2 3GPP
The “Third Generation Partnership Project,” commonly known by the acronym “3GPP,”
consists of a group of Technical Specification Groups (TSGs). There are four TSGs (with the
first three of interest to ETS):
C-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
• TSG Service and System Aspects (TSG-SA),
• TSG Core Network and Terminals (TSG-CT),
• TSG Radio Access Network (TSG-RAN),
• TSG GSM EDGE Radio Access Network (TSG-GERAN).
TSG-SA is responsible for the overall architecture and service capabilities of systems based on
3GPP specifications. TSG-SA is also responsible for cross-TSG coordination. Specifically,
TSG-SA is responsible for:
• Definition, evolution and maintenance of the overall system architecture including the
assignment of functions to particular subsystems (UTRAN, CN, terminal, SIM),
identification of key information flows and definition of required bearers and services
offered by these different subsystems.
• Development of a framework for services, service capabilities, service architecture,
charging and consideration of need for default services and/or applications.
• Definition of a security framework and review of security aspects of overall system.
• Management of work items including assignment of tasks to other TSGs and monitoring
of progress.
TSG-CT is responsible for the specification of the Core Network and Terminals for systems
based on 3GPP specifications. Specifically, TSG-CT is responsible for:
• User Equipment – Core network layer 3 radio protocols (Call Control, Session
Management, Mobility Management).
• Core Network internal interfaces for Call Associated and Non-Call Associated signaling.
• Interconnection of the Core Network with external networks.
• Interworking between 3rd and 2nd generation networks.
TSG-RAN is responsible for the radio access part, including its internal structure, of systems
based on 3GPP specifications. Specifically, TSG-RAN is responsible for:
• Radio aspects of Terminal Equipment and UTRAN functions (FDD and TDD),
requirements and interfaces.
ETS is implicitly supported by specifications associated with a Multimedia Priority Service
(MPS) and enhancements for Multimedia Priority Service (eMPS) work items. The SA Working
Group (WG) 1 has developed [TS 22.153]. [TS 22.153] specifies the Stage 1 requirements for
MPS support for voice, video, and priority data bearer service.
Based on [3GPP TS 22.153], 3GPP is developing a Stage 2 Technical Report for enhancements
for MPS [3GPP TR 23.854] to identify changes to existing Stage 2 3GPP specifications (e.g.,
[3GPP TS 23.401], [3GPP TS 23.203], [3GPP TS 23.328], [3GPP TS 23.272]) to support MPS,
including IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) and Policy and Charging Control (PCC) aspects.
This TR is intended to clarify the architectural requirements and call/session flows for MPS.
Based on the 3GPP Stage 2 requirements, changes to the existing 3GPP Stage 3 specifications
(e.g., [TS 24.229]) to support MPS for UMTS and Long Term Evolution (LTE) access
technologies will be specified.
C-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
C.1.3 IETF
The IETF is an international organization that develops standards and specifications applicable
to the Internet. They primarily deal with very specific issues and do not concern themselves
with systems, service, or architectural aspects. The following IETF Working Groups are
involved in addressing ETS aspects as a secondary function of their major work:
• SIPCore Working Group - The Session Initiation Protocol Core (SIPCore) working
group is chartered to maintain and continue the development of the core SIP
specifications. The SIPCore Working Group defined [RFC 4412] for RPH in support of
ETS.
• TSVWG Working Group - The Transport Services Working Group (TSVWG) takes on
work that is involved in the transport area. The TSVWG Working Group defined [RFC
5865] for a Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) for Capacity-Admitted Traffic in
support of ETS.
• DIME Working Group - The Diameter Maintenance and Extensions WG focuses on
maintenance and extensions to the Diameter protocol required to enable its use for
authentication, authorization, accounting and provisioning in network access as well as
for other applications environments (e.g., IP telephony, mobility). The DIME Working
Group defined Diameter AVPs for the Diameter protocol.
C.2 Priority Signaling
This clause specifies various signaling protocols in support of ETS in NGN.
C.2.1 SIP
SIP is a control protocol for creating, modifying, and terminating IP-based sessions with two or
more participants. [RFC 4412] adds two header fields to SIP, namely the Resource-Priority and
the Accept-Resource-Priority fields, and specifies the procedures for their usage. [RFC 4412]
specifies two namespaces, ets and wps, in support of ETS. According to [RFC 4412], both the
ets and wps namespaces can support five priority levels (0 to 4 with 0 being the highest) that
convey levels of importance in the signaling and control layer. For an ETS call/session, priority
processing in the signaling and control plane is triggered by the presence of the RPH with the ets
namespace, and possibly the wps namespace, in the SIP signaling messages. The SIP Resource
Priority Header (RPH) namespaces and associated generic procedures are used to support
different priority services in the IP and IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) domain. [ATIS-
1000010] build on the IMS model and specifications of 3GPP and is the key standard supporting
the use of the RPH for ETS in the U.S. [3GPP TS 24.229] also supports the RPH. [3GPP TS
24.229] defines a call control protocol for use in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN)
subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), and the associated Session Description
Protocol (SDP).
For an ETS call/session routed from a PSTN, the coding of the RPH namespaces in SIP is based
on the coding of the received ISUP request. [ATIS-1000010] specifies this mapping in detail.
C.2.2 Diameter
The Diameter protocol [RFC 3588] supports Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
(AAA) for network functions and applications such as network access and IP mobility.
C-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
The following Attribute Value Pairs (AVPs) are used in the Diameter protocol in support of
ETS:
• AF-Application-Identifier
• Reservation-Priority
• Priority-Level (as part of the Allocation Retention Priority (ARP) AVP)
• Session-Priority.
The AF-Application-Identifier AVP is defined in [3GPP TS 29.214]. [3GPP TS 29.214]
provides the stage 3 specification of the Rx reference point in the IMS. The Rx reference point
lies between the Application Function and the Policy and Charging Rule Function (e.g. policy
server). An AF-Application-Identifier value can be used as additional information together with
the Reservation-Priority AVP at the Rx/Rs interface to mark an ETS call/session.
The Reservation-Priority AVP is defined by the European Telecommunications Standards
Institute (ETSI) in [ETSI TS 183 017]. [3GPP TS 29.214] specifies the Reservation-Priority
AVP over the Policy and Charging Control (PCC) Rx interface in support of priority services
(e.g., ETS). The Reservation-Priority AVP supports 16 priority levels that can carry the user
priority level and can be used to request priority treatment.
The Priority-Level AVP (as part of the Allocation Retention Priority (ARP) AVP) is defined in
[3GPP TS 29.212]. It specifies the Priority-Level AVP over the Policy and Charging Control
(PCC) Gx interface in support of priority services (e.g., ETS). The Priority-Level AVP supports
15 priority levels that can carry the user priority level and can be used to request priority
treatment. [3GPP TS 29.212] provides the stage 3 specification of the Gx and Gxx reference
points. The Gx reference point lies between the Policy and Charging Rule Function and the
Policy and Charging Enforcement Function. The Gxx reference point lies between the Policy
and Charging Rule Function and the Bearer Binding and Event Reporting Function.
The Session-Priority AVP is defined in [3GPP TS 29.229]. [3GPP TS 29.229] defines a
transport protocol for use in the IM CN subsystem based on Diameter for the Cx interface
between the I-CSCF/S-CSCF and the HSS, and the Dx interface between the I-CSCF/S-CSCF
and the SLF. [3GPP TS 29.229] specifies the use of the Session-Priority AVP over the Cx and
Dx interfaces in support of priority services (e.g., ETS). Similarly, [3GPP TS 29.329] specifies
the use of the Session-Priority AVP over the Sh interface in support of priority services. The
Session-Priority AVP supports five priority levels that can be used to request priority treatment.
[3GPP TS 29.329] defines a transport protocol for use in the IM CN subsystem based on
Diameter for the Sh interface between an AS and the HSS and the Sh interface between an SCS
and the HSS.
C.2.3 H.248
Gateway Control Protocol [ITU-T H.248.1] decomposes the gateway function into functional
subcomponents and specifies the protocols these components use to communicate. The Gateway
Control Protocol is used to provide signaling control between the controller and gateway
functions.
To enable priority handling, the following [ITU-T H.248.1] parameters are used with ETS for
priority treatment:
C-4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
• International Emergency Preference Scheme (IEPS) call indicator
• Priority indicator.
For ETS, the IEPS call indicator carries the priority indication between the controller and
gateway. The Priority indicator is used to carry the user priority level between the controller and
gateway. The IEPS call indicator is used to request preference handling in the gateway for the
corresponding media connection. For an ETS call/session, both the H.248.1 Priority indicator
and IEPS call indicator must be present.
C.2.4 ISUP
For an ETS call/session routed to a PSTN, the following ISUP parameters are used with ETS for
priority treatment:
• Calling Party’s Category parameter
• Precedence parameter.
For ETS, the Calling Party’s Category carries the priority indication. The Precedence parameter
is used to carry the user priority level.
For an ETS call/session routed to a PSTN, the coding of the Calling Party’s Category and
Precedence parameters are based on the coding of the received SIP request. [ATIS-1000010]
specifies this mapping in detail.
C.3 Priority Transport
This clause describes various transport capabilities to facilitate priority IP transport for ETS.
The ETS Service Providers will need to design and deploy their transport systems to meet their
service transport needs. The ETS Service Provider will have to deploy various transport
capabilities to facilitate priority IP transport for ETS call/session signaling and bearer/media.
Some of these are described below.
Packets are processed by various network elements according to the application and policy
needs. All network elements in the access and Core network process some type of signaling
(e.g., SIP, Diameter, and H.248). All outgoing IP packets carrying media and signaling (SIP and
other signaling) related to an ETS call/session may be marked by the Functional Entity (FE)
with a configurable DiffServ Codepoint (DSCP) at the Layer 3. The DSCP may be used to
provide priority treatment in processing and transport where DiffServ is used [RFC 5865], and
in other devices which are DSCP-aware. Where Ethernet transport is used, Ethernet packets
carrying signaling and media for an ETS call/session are marked with Ethernet Frame Header
Class Of Service (COS) parameter value of “NS/EP” at the Layer 2 and provided priority
treatment in processing and transport. Further, these IP packets can be marked and transported
with priority through the Core Network, for example, using MPLS priority paths.
The following are some example traffic management mechanisms that an ETS service provider
can use to provide priority treatment for ETS traffic (signaling and media packets):
• Traffic conditioning: traffic classification, packet filtering and policing
• Packet marking (DiffServ) and Per-Hop Behavior (PHB): VOICE-ADMIT DSCP is
defined for a class of traffic that is subject to strict Call Admission Control (CAC) and
includes ETS traffic ([RFC 5865]). Similarly, [ATIS-1000020] defines requirements for
C-5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
a separate Expedited Forwarding (EF) mechanism that can recognize a class of traffic
such as ETS voice for preferential treatment via a unique DiffServ Code Point (DSCP).
• Admission control: ETS call/session can be provided priority admission to an ETS
Service Provider network ([ATIS-0100003] and [draft-ietf-tsvwg-emergency-rsvp]).
[ATIS-0100003] provides guidance on the user plane priority levels in IP networks. It
proposes three levels of connection admission control priority for the user plane
communications traffic in IP networks and proposes that ETS be given the highest
priority for call/session setup. [draft-ietf-tsvwg-emergency-rsvp] specifies extensions to
the Resource reSerVation Protocol (RSVP) that can be used to support an admission
priority capability at the network layer to allow a higher probability of session
establishment to specific sessions in times of network congestion.
• Bandwidth reservation and allocation using various types of MPLS networks (e.g.,
DiffServ-aware MPLS, reserved LSPs for ETS traffic).
All of the above mechanisms require some provisioning functions. An ETS Service Provider can
implement a combination of the above mechanisms to give an ETS call/session a high likelihood
of being successful, including both establishing and maintaining the ETS call/session with the
required QoS.
C.4 Core Network Requirements
This clause lists various ATIS, 3GPP, and IETF Standards/Specifications and Industry
Requirements in support of ETS/MPS in a Core Network. The following documents related to
the Core Network exist in support of ETS/MPS:
• [ATIS-1000010] is an initial Standard to meet the short-term ETS deployment needs
arising from the rapid deployment of various VoIP service provider networks. This
Standard essentially supports “GETS-VoIP” and covers the following areas at a high-
level:
o SIP call control signaling and applications capabilities required to support ETS in
IP networks, including the rules for using the “ets” and “wps” namespaces in the
SIP Resource-Priority Header (RPH).
o Basic “GETS-like” authentication requiring the user to input PIN and destination
number.
o Interworking between two managed VoIP networks.
o Interworking between a VoIP packet-switched network and a legacy circuit-
switched wireline or wireless network, including SIP-ISUP interworking at a
PSTN gateway.
o Call flows illustrating various interworking scenarios.
o Security requirements and guidelines to protect ETS communications within and
between interconnected networks.
• [IMS Core IR] specifies Industry Requirements (IR) for Next Generation Network
(NGN) Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) Voice service
supported by an Internet Protocol (IP) Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Core Network.
C-6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
Legacy GETS and Wireless Priority Service (WPS) [WPS GSM IR] [WPS CDMA IR]
[WPS UMTS IR] are provided by the legacy, circuit-switched, wireline and wireless
networks, including Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) service providers and
wireless service providers. NGN GETS Voice service is intended to preserve and extend
Legacy GETS and WPS, as these service providers migrate their networks to IMS-based
networks. NGN GETS, Legacy GETS, and WPS are all facets of the more encompassing
concept of GETS as the USA instantiation of the international standard for Emergency
Telecommunications Service (ETS) [ITU-T E.107].
• [ATIS-1000023] is based on [ATIS-1000018] and [ATIS-1000010]. It provides SIP and
operational measurement requirements for RPH-capable NGN networks elements, and
requirements for a PSTN gateway that are included in the [IMS Core IR]. This Standard
is consistent with the [IMS Core IR].
• [Draft ATIS ETS Phase 2 Requirements] will revise [ATIS-1000023] to include: 1) new
requirement for additional ATIS NGN Architecture network elements, 2) revision of
existing network elements requirements, 3) other non-SIP based interfaces (e.g.,
Diameter, H.248) and 4) updates from the 3GPP specifications to align with the [IMS
Core IR] and any future updates.
• [3GPP TS 22.153] specifies priority service and multimedia priority service for 3GPP
systems. 3GPP specified priority service and multimedia priority service allow
authorized users to obtain priority access to the next available radio (voice or data traffic)
channels before other users during situations when congestion is blocking call attempts.
Priority service supports priority call progression and call completion to support an “end-
to-end” priority call from mobile-to-mobile networks, mobile-to-fixed networks, and
fixed-to-mobile networks. Multimedia Priority Service supports priority progression of
multimedia sessions and completion to support “end-to-end” priority multimedia
sessions, including mobile-to-mobile networks, mobile-to-fixed networks, and fixed-to-
mobile networks.
• eMPS (enhancements for MPS) covers other national variants of government emergency
response services as well. The enhancements for MPS evaluated in [3GPP TR 23.854]
are priority aspects of EPS packet bearer services and priority related interworking
between IMS and EPS packet bearer services. These enhancements enable the network to
support end-to-end priority treatment for MPS call/session origination/termination,
including the Non Access Stratum (NAS) and Access Stratum (AS) signaling
establishment procedures at the originating/terminating network side as well as resource
allocation in the core and radio networks for bearers. Priority treatment will be applicable
to IMS based multimedia services, priority EPS bearer services and CS Fallback.
• [3GPP TS 24.229] defines a call control protocol (SIP) for use in the IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), and the
associated Session Description Protocol (SDP). It supports the RPH. Similarly, [3GPP
TS 29.212], [3GPP TS 29.214], [3GPP TS 29.329], and [3GPP TS 23.328] address other
Diameter protocol aspects in support of eMPS. 3GPP CT WGs are addressing
specifications for Policy and Charging Control (PCC) aspects in support of ETS/MPS.
C-7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
• [RFC 5865] requests one Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) from the Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) for a class of real-time traffic. This traffic class
conforms to the Expedited Forwarding Per-Hop Behavior. This traffic is also admitted
by the network using a Call Admission Control (CAC) procedure involving
authentication, authorization, and capacity admission. This differs from a real-time
traffic class that conforms to the Expedited Forwarding Per-Hop Behavior but is not
subject to capacity admission or subject to very coarse capacity admission.
C.5 Access Requirements
This clause lists various ATIS and 3GPP Standards/Specifications and Industry Requirements in
support of ETS/MPS in Access Networks. The following documents related to the Access
Network (wireline and LTE) exist in support of ETS/MPS:
• [Wireline IR] specifies NGN GETS Industry Requirements (IR) for wireline access
networks. The wireline access technologies discussed in this document are Digital
Subscriber Line (DSL), fiber (Broadband and Ethernet Passive Optical Networks
(PONs)), Cable Access Networks, and Ethernet.
• [Draft ETS Wireline Access Requirements] will define network element requirements for
wireline access in support of ETS for DSL, Cable, Fiber, and Ethernet. This Standard
will be aligned with the [Wireline IR].
• [LTE IR] specifies NGN GETS Industry Requirements (IR) for an Evolved UMTS
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) access network. E-UTRA is the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP) term for a system known commercially as LTE.
• [Draft TR Access Networks Architecture] will examine how access technologies handle
various types of traffic, including voice, data, and video. The analysis will be generic and
not in a service-specific manner. The technology sections will reference the work of the
various organizations developing standards in their respective areas. The scope of this
TR will be DSL, Cable, Fiber, and Ethernet for wireline technologies and UMTS, EV-
DO, LTE, and WiMAX for wireless technologies.
• [Draft NGN GETS Call Flows] will provide an umbrella document relating all the NGN
GETS (ETS) standards and IRs, including the access technology specific work in the
other standards bodies (e.g., 3GPP). Specifically, [Draft NGN GETS Call Flows], a
broad over-arching Standards document, will provide end-to-end call flows for all the
access technologies, in addition to the Core network. These call flows will address
call/session set-up, termination, and on-going activities of the call/session for the various
NGN GETS service types and access technologies. The call flows will be synchronized
with the call/session flows in each of the NGN GETS Access Network IRs, and the [IMS
Core IR]. In addition, this Standard will provide a brief road-map of on-going standards
activities and the key standard references.
• Both [3GPP TS 22.153] and [3GPP TR 23.854] address Access Network aspects of
ETS/MPS. In addition, 3GPP RAN WGs are addressing specifications for UTRAN and
E-UTRAN in support of ETS/MPS.
• [RFC 5865] also addresses Access Network aspects of ETS.
C-8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
References
NCS
[WPS CDMA IR] Wireless Priority Service (WPS) Industry Requirements for the Full
Operating Capability (FOC) for CDMA-based systems – Home Location
Register (HLR). Issue 1.0, May 17, 2004.
[WPS GSM IR] Wireless Priority Service (WPS) Industry Requirements for the Full
Operating Capability (FOC) for GSM-based systems. Issue 2.0, January
2004.
[WPS UMTS IR] Wireless Priority Service (WPS) Industry Requirements for UMTS –
Phase 1 – Redirection to GSM. Issue 1.0, June 10, 2005.
[IMS Core IR] National Security/Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) – Internet Protocol
(IP) Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Core Network Industry Requirements
(IR) for Next Generation Network (NGN) Government Emergency
Telecommunications Service (GETS), Phase 1, Voice Service, Issue 1.0,
December 2007.
[Wireline IR] National Security / Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) – Wireline Access
Networks Industry Requirements (IR) for Next Generation Network
(NGN) Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS),
Issue 1.1 plus Ethernet Addendum, June 2010.
[LTE IR] National Security / Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) – LTE Access
Network Industry Requirements (IR) for Next Generation Network
(NGN) Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS),
Issue 1.0, March 2010.
3GPP
[3GPP TS 22.153] 3GPP TS 22.153, Multimedia Priority Service (MPS) – Stage 1
Requirements.
[3GPP TS 23.203] 3GPP TS 23.203, Policy and Charging Control Architecture.
[3GPP TS 29.212] 3GPP TS 29.212, Policy and charging control over Gx reference point.
[3GPP TS 29.214] 3GPP TS 29.214, Policy and charging control over Rx reference point.
[3GPP TS 24.229] 3GPP TS 24.229, Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); Stage 3.
[3GPP TS 23.272] 3GPP TS 29.328, Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 2.
[3GPP TS 23.328] 3GPP TS 29.328, IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Sh interface;
Signalling flows and message contents
[3GPP TS 29.329] 3GPP TS 29.329, Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details.
C-9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
[3GPP TS 23.401] 3GPP TS 23.401, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements
for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)
access.
[3GPP TR 23.854] 3GPP TR 23.854, Enhancements for Multimedia Priority Service.
ATIS
[ATIS-0100003] ATIS-0100003, User Plane Priority Levels for IP Networks and Services.
November 2004.
[ATIS-1000010] ATIS-1000010, Support of Emergency Telecommunications Service
(ETS) in IP Network, June 2006.
[ATIS-1000018] ATIS-1000018, ATIS NGN Architecture TR, February 2007.
[ATIS-1000020] ATIS-1000020, ETS Packet Priority for IP NNI Interfaces –
Requirements for a Separate Expedited Forwarding Mechanism, October
2007.
[ATIS-1000023] ATIS-1000023, ETS Phase 1 Network Element Requirements, June 2008.
[Draft ETS Wireline Access Requirements] Draft ETS Wireline Access Requirements
Standard.
[Draft TR Access Networks Architecture] Draft Technical Report on Access Networks
Architecture.
[Draft ATIS ETS Phase 2 Requirements] Draft ETS Phase 2 Network Element Requirements
Standard.
[Draft NGN GETS Call Flows] Draft Standard for End-to-End NGN GETS Call Flows.
ETSI TISPAN
[ETSI TS 183 017] ETSI TISPAN TS 183 017, Resource and Admission Control: Diameter
protocol for session based policy set-up information exchange between
the Application Function (AF) and the Service Policy Decision Function
(SPDF).
IETF
[RFC 3588] IETF RFC 3588, Diameter Base Protocol.
[RFC 4412] IETF RFC 4412, Communications Resource Priority for the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP).
[RFC 5865] IETF RFC 5865, A Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) for
Capacity-Admitted Traffic.
[draft-ietf-tsvwg-emergency-rsvp] draft-ietf-tsvwg-emergency-rsvp, Resource ReSerVation
Protocol (RSVP) Extensions for Admission Priority.
ITU-T
[ITU-T E.107] ITU-T Recommendation E.107, Emergency Telecommunications Service
C-10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix C – Standards and Industry Requirements in Support of ETS
(ETS) and interconnection framework for national implementations of
ETS. February 2007.
[ITU-T H.248.1] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1, Gateway control protocol: Version 3,
September 2005.
C-11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
Acronyms
2G: 2nd Generation
3G: 3rd Generation
3GPP: 3rd Generation Partnership Project
3GPP2: 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2
4G: 4th Generation
AAA: Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
APCO: Association of Public Safety Communications Officials
ARP: Allocation Retention Priority
ATIS: Alliance for Telecommunication Industry Solutions
AVP: Attribute Value Pairs
BLS: Bureau of Labor Standards
CAC: Call Admission Control
CDMA: Code Division Multiple Access
CDC: Centers for Disease Control
CI: Critical Infrastructure
CIO: Chief Information Office(r)
CLEC: Competitive Local Exchange Carrier
CMRS: Commercial Mobile Radio Service
COG: Continuity of Government
COOP: Continuity of Operations
COP: Committee of Principals
COS: Class of Service
CSRIC: Communications, Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
CTF: Convergence Task Force
CWG: Convergence Working Group
DC: District of Columbia
DHS: Department of Homeland Security
DSCP: Differentiated Services Code Point
DPA: Defense Production Act
DSL: Digital Subscriber Line
DSN: Defense Switched Network
DTS: Diplomatic Telecommunications Service
EF: Expedited Forwarding
EO: End Office
EO: Executive Order
EOP: Executive Office of the President
eHRPD: Evolved OR Enhanced High Rate Packet Data
EMS: Emergency Medical Services
EMT: Emergency Medical Technician
EPC: Evolved Packet Core
EPS: Evolved Packet System
ESF: Emergency Support Function
ETS: Emergency Telecommunications Service
ETSI: European Telecommunications Standards Institute
E-UTRA: Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
D-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
FCC: Federal Communications Commission
FE: Functional Entity
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency
FOC: Full Operational Capability
FTS: Federal Technology Service
GAO: Government Accountability Office
GEO: Geosynchronous Earth Orbit
GETS: Government Emergency Telecommunications Service
GMR: Geo Mobile Radio
GSA: General Services Administration
GSM: Global System for Mobile Communications
HPC: High Probability of Completion
HRPD: High Rate Packet Data
HSPA: High Speed Packet Access
HSPD: Homeland Security Presidential Directive
ICS: Incident Command System
IdM: Identity Management
IEPS: International Emergency Preference Scheme
IETF: Internet Engineering Task Force
IITC: Internetwork Interoperability Test Coordination
IMS: IP Multimedia Subsystem
IOC: Initial Operational Capabilities
IP: Internet Protocol
IR: Industry Requirements
ISDN: Integrated Services Digital Network
ISP: Internet Service Provider
ISUP: ISDN User Part
IT: Information Technology
ITU-T: International Telecommunication Union – Telecommunication Standardization
Sector
IXC: Interexchange Carrier
LAN: Local Area Network
LEC: Local Exchange Carrier
LSP: Label Switched Path
LTE: Long Term Evolution
MPLS: Multi-Protocol Label Switching
MPS: Multimedia Priority Service
MSC: Mobile Switching Center
MSRC: Media Security and Reliability Council
NCIRP: National Cyber Incident Response Plan
NCS: National Communications System
NGN: Next Generation Network
NIAC: National Infrastructure Advisory Council
NIMS: National Incident Management System
NMOC: Network Management Operations Center
NNI: Network-to-Network Interface
NRF: National Response Framework
D-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
NRIC: Network Reliability & Interoperability Council
NSPD: National Security Presidential Directive
NS/EP: National Security and Emergency Preparedness
NSTAC: National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
NYC: New York City
OAM&P: Operations, Administration, Maintenance, and Provisioning (or Planning)
OMNCS: Office of the Manager, National Communications System
OPM: Office of Personnel Management
PAHPA: Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act
PAS: Priority Access Service
PCC: Policy and Charging Control
PCIS: Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security
PDA: Personal Digital Assistant
PDD: Presidential Decision Directive
PHB: Per Hop Behavior
PIN: Personal Identification Number
PON: Passive Optical Network
PPE: Personal Protective Equipment
PRQC: Network Performance, Reliability and Quality of Service Committee
PSAP: Public Safety Access Point
PSTN: Public Switched Telephone Network
PTSC: Packet Technologies and Systems Committee
QoS: Quality of Service
R&O: Report and Order
RFC: Request for Comments
ROM: Rough Order of Magnitude
RPH: Resource Priority Header
SDO: Standards Development Organization
SIP: Session Initiation Protocol
SLA: Service Level Agreement
SMS: Short Messaging Service
SRAS: Special Routing Arrangement Service
TR: Technical Report
TS: Technical Specification
TSP: Telecommunications Service Priority
UMTS: Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UNI: User Network Interface
VoIP: Voice over IP
WAN: Wide Area Network
WG7: Working Group 7
WH: White House
WiMax: Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
WPS: Wireless Priority Service
WT: Wireless Telecommunications
D-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
Key Terms
Authentication is the process of verifying the claimed identity of an entity (e.g., Service User,
Service Provider or other data source).
Authorization is a process of granting an authenticated entity (e.g., Service User or Service
Provider) access to a service or resource based on access rights and privileges.
Emergency Telecommunications Service (ETS) is a national service, providing priority
telecommunications to the ETS-authorized user in times of disaster and emergency (ITU-T
Study Group 2) [E.107].
End-to-end priority treatment refers to mechanisms and features that support an increased
probability of completion of a call/session invoked by a Service User. The priority treatment
applies to call/session establishment (origination, progression, and termination). In addition to
the establishment phase, the end-to-end priority treatment ensures that the call/session continues
with the specified Quality of Service (QoS) until the call/session is released.
Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) is a U.S. ETS using public
telecommunications networks, offered by the NCS to authorized users for National Security and
Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) purposes.
GETS Credentials are credentials assigned by the NCS to an authorized Service User that can
be used to authenticate an NGN GETS invocation from any UE, regardless of whether or not the
Service User has an NGN GETS subscription with the Service Provider.
The most familiar example of GETS Credentials is the GETS PIN found on the GETS card.
Internet Protocol (IP) Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) is an architecture specified by the Third
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) [TR 21.905] [TS 23.002] consisting of all Core Network
elements to provide IP multimedia applications over IP. IMS supports SIP-based data, video,
and Voice over IP (VoIP) services.
IMS Core Network is the core network infrastructure of an IMS-based NGN consisting of all
IMS elements, IP transport elements (such as high speed routers and border elements), and other
network elements. An IMS Core Network supports various access technologies.
Legacy GETS is a circuit-switched form of GETS for voice (and voiceband data) using PIN
authentication, in which a user can invoke the service by dialing from most phones served by the
Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). Legacy GETS provides priority treatment across
originating, transit, and terminating networks.
Network-to-Network Interface (NNI) is the interface between two service provider networks
or between two different technology domains within a service provider network, including all
protocol levels.
Next Generation Network (NGN) is a public telecommunications network based on Internet
Protocol (IP) packet-switched technologies that is intended to augment and eventually replace
the PSTN. An NGN supports a broad mix of services including, but not limited to, voice
services, video services, and data services.
D-4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
NS/EP NGN Priority Services is the evolution of Legacy GETS and WPS to achieve service
continuity in the packet-switched NGN and leverages the NGN to offer new features and priority
multimedia services.
On-demand means the Service User can invoke the service whenever needed, without requiring
a Service Provider to have first “activated” the service in response to an emergency.
When a Service User invokes NGN GETS by dialing or entering *272+DN (i.e., a GETS-FC
call), it is a request for priority treatment to be applied immediately. The invocation is “On-
demand” in so far as it may occur anytime, 24x7x365, is for immediate service, and is not
dependent on the Service Provider recognizing an NS/EP event, or receiving direction from the
NCS, in order to turn on a capability that will allow users to invoke priority treatment. Nor does
the Service User have to invoke the priority treatment at some point in advance of the actual
need (although the Service User must have completed in advance the administrative
arrangements of approval by the NCS and, in the case of Subscription Credentials, to be
subscribed to NGN GETS with the Service Provider).
Priority Treatment refers to mechanisms and features that support a greater probability of
service success when NS/EP NGN Priority Services are invoked by a Service User.
Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) is a public telecommunications network (i.e.,
PSTN or a public wireless network) based on circuit-switched technologies that provides voice
(and voiceband data) services.
Quality of Service (QoS) is a defined measure of performance for a service in a
communications system. QoS may be specified in terms of the underlying packet transmission
characteristics (e.g., delay, jitter, error rate) or in terms of service characteristics (e.g., Mean
Opinion Score (MOS) for a voice or video session).
Service Provider is a public telecommunications service provider authorized by the NCS to
provide GETS, WPS, and NS/EP NGN Priority Services.
Service User is an individual authorized by the NCS to use GETS and to whom a priority
assignment has been granted by the NCS.
Service User priority level is a number from one to five where one has the highest priority for
GETS services and five has the lowest priority for GETS services. The Service User priority
level is assigned to a Service User by the NCS based on certain criteria.
Subscription Credentials are credentials assigned by a Service Provider to a Service User who
has a subscription to NGN GETS with the Service Provider and allow the Service User to
successfully invoke NGN GETS using the subscription-based authentication without having to
submit GETS Credentials.
An example of Subscription Credentials is a WPS subscription; the WPS subscription enables
origination of an NS/EP priority call without having to use GETS PIN-based authentication /
authorization.
D-5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix D – Acronyms and Key Terms
All devices are expected to be conventional, mass-market products. Service Users with only
GETS Credentials will not have any specific NGN GETS capabilities configured on their
devices. However, Service Users with Subscription Credentials may have specific subscription-
based GETS capabilities configured on their devices, e.g., priority access classes.
Wireless Priority Service (WPS) is a circuit-switched form of GETS for voice (and voiceband
data) using subscription-based authentication, in which a user can invoke the service by dialing a
feature code from a WPS-subscribed mobile phone served by a public wireless network. WPS
provides priority treatment across originating and terminating public wireless networks,
including priority radio resource assignment upon call origination and termination.
D-6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix E – References
References
[DHS 1] Pandemic Influenza Impact on Communications Networks Study, Department of
Homeland Security, December 2007
[EO 12472] Executive Order 12472--Assignment of national security
and emergency preparedness telecommunications functions, April 1984
[EO 12656] Executive Order 12656--Assignment of Emergency Preparedness
Responsibilities, November 1988
[EO 13231] Executive Order 13231--Critical Infrastructure Protection in the Information Age,
October 2001
[FBIIC 1] The FBIIC/FSSCC Pandemic Flu Exercise of 2007 After Action Report, U.S.
Department of the Treasury, January 2008
[FCC 1] FCC Second Report and Order (R&O) 00-242, July 2000
[HHS 1] National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza – Homeland Security Council, November 2005
[NSPD 51 - HSPD 20] National Security Presidential Directive 51—National Continuity Policy, May
2007
[NSTAC 1] NSTAC Report to the President on Emergency Communications and
Interoperability, The President’s National Security Telecommunications
Advisory Committee, January 2007
[OPM 1] Planning for Pandemic Influenza: Human Resources Information for Agencies
and Departments, Office of Personnel Management, May 2009
[PCIS 1] Addressing the Pandemic Influenza Threat: Cross-Sector Readiness Assessment,
Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security, May 2009
[PDD 67] Presidential Directive Decision 67-- Enduring Constitutional Government
and Continuity of Government Operations, October 1998
[WH 1] Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP Telecommunications:
Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
E-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix E – References
Web Pages
DHS
http://www.dhs.gov, -Home page for Department of Homeland Security
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/national_emergency_communications_plan.pdf, -National
Emergency Communications Plan, July 2008
http://www.dhs.gov/files/programs/critical-infrastructure.shtm, -References and pointers to protecting
critical infrastructures
http://www.fema.gov/emergency/nrf/, -National Response Framework Resource Center
FCC
http://www.fcc.gov/, -Home page for the Federal Communications Commission
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/, -Home page for Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/services/priority-services/, -Brief discussion of GETS, WPS and TSP with
pointers to FAQ about the programs
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/services/priority-services/faqs/hc-faq.pdf, -TSP FAQ
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/emergency-information/pandemics.html, -Information on Pandemics
http://www.fcc.gov/Reports/1934new.pdf, -Text of Communications Act of 1934
http://www.fcc.gov/Bureaus/OSEC/library/legislative_histories/44.pdf?date=123456?title=Report%20(S
enate)?description=S3285,%20Communications%20Act%20of%2
01934, -Communications Act of 1934 (as published)
http://www.fcc.gov/Reports/tcom1996.pdf, -Telecommunications Act of 1996
http://www.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric/NCS-%20NGN-%20Presentation-CSRIC.ppt, -NGN Priority
Services Efforts Presentation to CSRIC
GAO
http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d1073.pdf, -Influenza Pandemic, Monitoring and Assessing the Status of
the National Pandemic Implementation Plan
HHS
http://www.hhs.gov/, -Home page for Health and Human Services
http://www.phe.gov/preparedness/pages/default.aspx, -HHS Public Heath Emergency home page
http://www.flu.gov/, Federal home page for flu information
http://www.flu.gov/professional/federal/pandemic-influenza.pdf, - National Strategy for Pandemic
Influenza
http://www.cdc.gov/flu/, -Center for Disease Control and Prevention, flu information
NENA
http://www.nena.org/, -Home page for National Emergency Number Association
E-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix E – References
Web Pages
Regulatory (Acts)
http://www.fema.gov/pdf/about/stafford_act.pdf, -Stafford Act, June 2007
http://www.govtrack.us/congress/billtext.xpd?bill=s109-3678, -Text of S. 3678 [109th]: Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness Act
http://www.govtrack.us/congress/billtext.xpd?bill=s111-3304, -Twenty-First Century Communications
and Video Accessibility Act of 2010
Standards Development Organizations
http://www.3gpp.org, -Home page for the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)
http://www.atis.org, -Home page for Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)
http://www.atis.org/ptsc, -Web page for the ATIS Packet Technologies and Systems Committee (PTSC)
http://www.ietf.org, -Home page for the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
World Health Organization
http://www.who.int/csr/disease/influenza/pandemic/en/, -Web page for WHO Pandemic Preparedness
E-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
Background
In CY 2000, the evolution of the PSTN into the NGN was underway. The President's National
Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee (NSTAC) created a working group to
analyze the impact of this evolution on NS/EP communications. In its report of May 2000,
Information Technology Progress Impact Task Force Report on Convergence, the NSTAC
highlighted the potential negative effects of convergence on voice and data networks for NS/EP
telecommunication services.
In their memorandum of November 15, 2000, the Assistant to the President for Science and
Technology, and the Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security, directed that a
Convergence Task Force (CTF) be established to "identify the policy, legal, technical and
security issues of convergence [of the voice and data networks] on the ability of the government
to assure NS/EP telecommunications for the President, and a process for resolving them." The
CTF was directed to report back by January 1, 2001.
The CTF report identified a set of policy, legal, security and technical issues associated with
network convergence. The issues identified were neither all-inclusive nor mutually exclusive.
The CTF report recommended that a Convergence Working Group be formed to address these
issues.
The CWG worked with Federal, state and local governments and the private sector to address
the issues identified in the CTF report. The CWG issued its report, Impact of Network
Convergence on NS/EP Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, in February
2002. The CWG based its findings and recommendations upon the following observations and
assumptions:1
• Emerging NGN technologies are outpacing advances in current NS/EP
telecommunication services.
• Continued senior-level involvement will enable the nation to achieve its NS/EP
telecommunication services’ goals.
• As convergence evolves, the NS/EP telecommunication services-provider community
will continue to expand and include nontraditional telecommunications as well as
information organizations (e.g., information service providers) that are unfamiliar with
NS/EP requirements or services.
• Technologies with the capability to impact the provisioning of NS/EP
telecommunication services will continue to emerge.
• Industry initiatives, including national and international standards organizations, will
primarily define and implement the NGN, although governments can, to a limited extent,
create the framework in which it evolves.
• NS/EP convergence-related issues affect federal, state and local governments.
• Many of the capabilities or enhancements necessary for NS/EP telecommunication
1 These observations and assumptions are taken verbatim from the report. Only observations and
assumptions relevant to the Working Group 7 activities are listed.
F-1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
services arising from convergence will occur through the ordinary course of
technological advances and market developments.
• The recommendations … cannot be implemented without appropriate resources. Funding
of the agencies responsible for implementing CWG recommendations will be required to
fully address the convergence issues discussed …
The findings of the CWG that are still relevant to Working Group 7 activities are given below.
Policy Findings
• NS/EP telecommunication services will require assured government access to the media
over which they travel. This assured access will initially be via the converging networks
(e.g., PSTN, wireless, cable, Internet, and satellite) and will ultimately be via the NGN.
This point is critical in that the converging networks are at increased risk of compromise;
e.g., DoS attacks affecting the availability and reliability of NS/EP telecommunication
services.
• The NS/EP community has not made significant progress to evolve NS/EP functional
requirements to address the known increased risk and decreasing level of confidence in
NS/EP telecommunication services assurance.
• To date, the NS/EP community has not made significant efforts to reach out to the global
range of participants and their environments that will influence this field during and after
convergence. As a result, current NS/EP policies and laws do not address the range of
issues posed by the global nature of the owners, operators, and standard-setting bodies of
the converging networks that will create the NGN.
• Convergence challenges may require the government to prioritize and allocate critical
resources prior to, during, or in the aftermath of a national crisis.
• Ubiquitous access to NS/EP telecommunication services is critical for authorized users.
• Appropriate management authorities to ensure ubiquity in the converging networks and
the NGN are not in place. There is likely to be a cost to the government for ensuring
these services and assurances are provided.
• Technological advances have greatly expanded the types of telecommunication services
that are and will be available for the President, national leadership, and the NS/EP
community as a whole. Accordingly, the articulated needs have expanded beyond simple
voice and data services.
• The baseline NS/EP telecommunications architecture should provide the national
security leadership seamless connectivity regardless of location.
F-2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
• The overarching NS/EP telecommunications convergence architecture should establish
timely, continuous, assured connectivity and functionality (e.g., availability, security,
diversity, reliability, flexibility, adaptability, interoperability).
Legal Findings
Convergence of communication technologies will require Congress and the Administration to
determine whether sufficient jurisdiction exists to address NS/EP telecommunication services
during crises and emergencies. In some cases, relevant authorities have been repealed or no
longer provide a sufficient foundation for managing converged telecommunication
environments.
Three themes permeate the legal findings in the CWG reports:
• The Administration and Congress must review several legal issues to lay a sufficiently
broad foundation for NS/EP programs and policies in a converged environment. Many of
these issues will require application of laws crafted prior to the Information Age. As a
result, leadership will be needed to analyze core legal principles and apply them in a
converged communications context.
• At least three federal statutes form the basis of NS/EP jurisdiction, including the Defense
Production Act (DPA) of 1950, as amended; the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended; and the Stafford Act. The Administration should review these authorities and
make appropriate recommendations to Congress, as they may be needed to service U.S.
government NS/EP communication needs.
• The Administration must carefully review EO 12472, which provides for current
executive branch implementation of these laws, and its reference within EO 13231. The
resulting legal findings must incorporate legal changes resulting from convergence
analysis.
Specific legal findings relating to these themes include:
• Existing federal communications statutes are not clearly applicable to all potential
providers of converged or NGN services.
• End-to-end communications interoperability, threats, and vulnerabilities may require
additional authority not currently part of the existing legal framework.
• The distinctions between national defense, national emergency, national security and
emergency preparedness, and the degree to which they limit the authority to provide for
NS/EP telecommunications in a converged environment need to be reviewed and
updated.
F-3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
• While the President may use the DPA programs to meet a variety of national defense
needs, the DPA does not provide authority to mandate the implementation of the ability
to indicate preferential or priority treatment of a packet across a network.
• The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, currently provides clear guidance for
jurisdiction over the PSTN and other telecommunication services, but not for the
information services, such as the Internet, that are carried over these systems.
• The scope of the FCC’s jurisdiction over converged services in an NS/EP context is
uncertain beyond telecommunications and other regulated services and, if challenged,
would require judicial or legislative clarification.
Technology Findings
• Integrated NGN services (e.g., voice, data, video) will be required in order to meet the
NS/EP telecommunication services functional requirements in the converged
environment.
• Presuming that the NGN develops as currently projected, the inherent attributes of NGN
packet-switching technology have the potential to facilitate priority treatment of NS/EP
telecommunication services.
• NS/EP telecommunication service standards and technology enhancement needs are
understood sufficiently well to enable planning and programming. However,
convergence will continue to introduce technology refinements and advances that will
influence the specifics of implementation throughout the evolution.
• NS/EP circuit/packet interworking is required to ensure that continued SRAS
functionality is available in the NGN architecture.
• Standards development will help ensure interoperability and the full functionality
required by the leadership.
• New NGN packet technologies such as media gateway controllers, signaling gateways,
trunking gateways, and their associated protocols are being deployed within the packet
network by major carriers and service providers without being tested in an internetwork
environment (i.e., between carriers and service providers).
Security Findings
• Security enhancements will be required in order to mitigate the vulnerabilities of
convergence and NGN technology.
F-4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
• Basic security technology will be developed and deployed when industry sees it as in
their best economic interests. However, higher-level security enhancements may be
needed for NS/EP telecommunication services.
• NGN NS/EP telecommunication services' security and technical requirements cannot be
identified and fixed without further analysis of convergence issues.
• Security issues need to be considered for, and security solutions built into, all new
NS/EP policy or functional features.
The recommendations of the CWG that are still relevant to Working Group 7 activities are given
below.
Policy Recommendations
• The OMNCS should: (1) provide information and guidance on NS/EP
telecommunication services and related convergence issues to state and local government
officials, in particular, Governors, State Emergency Management Offices and state and
local legislatures; (2) consult with state and local officials, particularly Chief Information
Officers (CIOs) and Emergency Management Offices, to further define and refine NS/EP
telecommunication service requirements; and (3) develop templates and leverage model
programs … to enhance awareness and develop convergence strategies with state and
local governments.
• The OMNCS … should continue to remain informed of industry trends through its
information collection efforts, ongoing discussions with industry and NS/EP users, and a
continuing focus on standards organization participation.
• Because the interconnection of the PSTN and packet networks introduces new
vulnerability concerns, the FCC and OMNCS should encourage competitive local
exchange carriers (CLECs) and Internet service providers (ISPs) to work with forums
such as the NSTAC.
• To fulfill its charge as articulated in EO 12742, Section 1, the OMNCS should:
o Broaden the technical expertise represented on the staff to include a greater
representation of information technology (IT) specialists;
o Expand its work with standard-setting bodies; and
o Encourage National Communications System (NCS) member departments and
agencies to do the same.
• Senior leaders in the executive and legislative branches, and the FCC, must be prepared
to make hard calls on the issue of how to assure access to NS/EP telecommunication
services in the converged network.
Legal Recommendations
• The President’s senior advisors and Congress must work together, and with the FCC, to
determine what if any legislative action is needed to assure access to NS/EP
telecommunication services as these services come to include those based on non-PSTN
F-5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council Working Group #7
NS/EP Next Generation Network Priority Services December 2010
Appendix F - Findings from Report on the Impact of Network Convergence on NS/EP
Telecommunications: Findings and Recommendations, February 2002
platforms, including currently unregulated networks and services.
Technology Recommendations
• The OMNCS should continue to vigorously pursue acceptance and implementation of
the Emergency Telecommunications Service (ETS) within national and international
standards bodies. NCS member organizations and agencies should continue to support
the OMNCS in its standards initiatives. In addition, the OMNCS should ensure that
provisions are included in the standards for access and egress for international ETS
traffic.
• The OMNCS should continue to work with the appropriate standards organizations and
forums (national and international) responsible for developing third generation (3G) and
beyond wireless standards to ensure that advanced voice and data services meet the
NS/EP telecommunications functional requirements.
• The OMNCS should continue to participate in the Alliance for Telecommunications
Industry Solutions (ATIS) Internetwork Interoperability Test Coordination (IITC)
Committee, and industry should be encouraged to perform internetwork interoperability
testing between packet network and the PSTN before the evolving technologies are
significantly deployed within the PN and NGN.
• The FCC should task the NRIC to assess the adequacy of interoperability testing between
circuit- and packet-switched networks and testing of NGN products and services to
minimize the risks of feature interaction and the introduction of additional vulnerabilities
affecting the reliability, availability, and security of telecommunication services
supporting NS/EP users.
• Where practical, the OMNCS and the General Services Administration (GSA) should
incorporate economic analysis into their ongoing assessments that identify NS/EP issues
associated with emerging technologies. Assessments addressing NS/EP
telecommunication service security issues as well as evaluation of policy and
enforcement mechanisms should also incorporate economic analysis.
• To facilitate cost-effective solutions for NS/EP telecommunication services in the NGN,
NCS member agencies should work with industry to develop performance and security
metrics.
The FCC and OMNCS have vigorously pursued implementing the recommendations in the
CWG report given available funding. Many of the findings and recommendations found in the
CWG report are still relevant and reflect the rapid pace of NGN technology evolution and the
lack of Government funding necessary to keep pace with that evolution.
F-6
