HTML Content from https://www.pwc.com/us/en/technology/alliances/microsoft/cybersecurity.html:
PwC and Microsoft Cybersecurity: PwC Skip to content Skip to footer Featured insights Capabilities Industries Technology About us Careers More Search Menu Featured insights Featured insights 2025 Global Digital Trust Insights Survey Board governance issues C-suite insights Case studies ESG Policy on Demand Podcasts PwC Executive Pulse Tech Effect Webcasts All Research and insights Menu Featured insights 2025 Global Digital Trust Insights Survey Menu Featured insights Board governance issues Menu Featured insights C-suite insights Board of directors Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Chief Operating Officer (COO) Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Controller Corporate development Future CFO Legal officer Sustainability leader Tax leader Transformation leader Menu Featured insights Case studies Menu Featured insights ESG Menu Featured insights Policy on Demand Menu Featured insights Podcasts Menu Featured insights PwC Executive Pulse Menu Featured insights Tech Effect Menu Featured insights Webcasts Menu Featured insights All Research and insights Featured How the 2024 election will impact your business Executive leadership hub - What’s important to the C-suite? Menu Capabilities Capabilities Audit and Assurance Alliances and ecosystems Artificial Intelligence (AI) Board governance issues Business model reinvention Consulting Cybersecurity, Risk and Regulatory Deals Digital assets and crypto Digital assurance and transparency Financial Markets & Real Estate Financial statement audit Managed Services Metaverse PwC Private Risk Modeling Services Sustainability and ESG Tax services Technology and transformation Viewpoint All capabilities Menu Capabilities Audit and Assurance Menu Capabilities Alliances and ecosystems Adobe Amazon Web Services Google Guidewire Microsoft Oracle Salesforce SAP Workday Workiva All alliances Menu Capabilities Artificial Intelligence (AI) Menu Capabilities Board governance issues Menu Capabilities Business model reinvention Menu Capabilities Consulting Menu Capabilities Cybersecurity, Risk and Regulatory Cybersecurity defense and engineering Data risk and privacy Investigations and forensics Strategy, risk and compliance Enterprise risk and controls solutions Enterprise tech solutions Financial crimes Risk and regulatory - Financial services Risk and regulatory - Health industries Menu Capabilities Deals Acquisitions Capital markets Deals strategy Deals technology Divestitures JVs and strategic alliances M&A integration Portfolio company value creation Turnaround and restructuring Menu Capabilities Digital assets and crypto Menu Capabilities Digital assurance and transparency Advanced technologies ERP and other financial systems SOC reporting services Menu Capabilities Financial Markets & Real Estate Menu Capabilities Financial statement audit Menu Capabilities Managed Services Business Outcome Managed Services Risk and Regulatory Managed Services Technology Managed Services Menu Capabilities Metaverse Menu Capabilities PwC Private Family enterprises Law firms Private equity and portfolio companies Ultra high net worth individuals US inbounds Menu Capabilities Risk Modeling Services Menu Capabilities Sustainability and ESG ESG reporting Sustainability strategy Sustainable technology and digital Menu Capabilities Tax services Menu Capabilities Technology and transformation Alliances and Ecosystems Application Evolution Managed Services Cloud engineering Cloud transformation Customer transformation Data and analytics Enterprise strategy and value Experience Center Finance transformation Industry cloud Operations transformation Technology strategy Workforce transformation Menu Capabilities Viewpoint Menu Capabilities All capabilities Menu Industries Industries Consumer markets Energy, utilities and resources Financial services Health industries Industrial products Technology, media and telecommunications All industries Menu Industries Consumer markets Hospitality and leisure Retail and consumer products Transportation and logistics Menu Industries Energy, utilities and resources Energy Mining Power and utilities Menu Industries Financial services Asset and wealth management Banking and capital markets Insurance Private Equity Menu Industries Health industries Emerging companies Health Research Institute Health services Medical technology Pharmaceuticals and life sciences Menu Industries Industrial products Aerospace and defense Automotive Capital projects and infrastructure Chemicals Engineering and construction Forest, paper, and packaging Industrial manufacturing Metals Menu Industries Technology, media and telecommunications Emerging companies Media Sports Technology Telecommunications Menu Industries All industries Menu Technology Technology Alliances and ecosystems Delivery platforms Emerging technology Products Tech-enabled services Tech Effect Technology and Transformation Menu Technology Alliances and ecosystems Adobe Amazon Web Services Google Cloud Guidewire Microsoft Oracle Salesforce SAP Workday Menu Technology Delivery platforms Aura Concourse Junction Sightline Menu Technology Emerging technology Artificial Intelligence (AI) Digital assets and crypto Metaverse Responsible AI Web3 Menu Technology Products Analytics Foundation Beacon Bookkeeping Connect Connected Solutions Enterprise Control Investor Survey Model Edge Next Level HR Profit Seeker Ready Assess Saratoga Risk Link View all products Menu Technology Tech-enabled services Agile Commerce Carbon Ledger Culture Thumbprint Enhanced insurance analytics for Salesforce ESG Geospatial Climate Intelligence (GCI) Insights to Enablement Market Advantage Payer Advocacy Center Ready Command Shovel Ready Menu Technology Tech Effect Menu Technology Technology and Transformation Alliances and Ecosystems Application Evolution Managed Services Cloud engineering Cloud transformation Customer transformation Data and analytics Enterprise strategy and value Experience Center Finance transformation Industry cloud Operations transformation Technology strategy Workforce transformation Menu About us About us Alumni Analyst relations Investing in our people Newsroom Offices Our leadership Purpose and values Menu About us Alumni Join the PwC Alumni Network Meet our alumni Menu About us Analyst relations Menu About us Investing in our people Menu About us Newsroom Menu About us Offices Menu About us Our leadership Menu About us Purpose and values Be Well, Work Well Diversity and inclusion Environmental sustainability Social responsibility Featured Tech Effect Menu Careers Careers Why PwC Entry Level Careers Experienced Careers University Relations Menu Careers Why PwC Benefits & Compensation Our Culture The PwC Professional US Careers Podcast hub Menu Careers Entry Level Careers Advance Internship Military and Veterans Recruiting process Search opportunities Student Development Programs Student programs quiz Menu Careers Experienced Careers Alumni Careers Contract opportunities Military and Veterans Search opportunities Menu Careers University Relations Faculty Newsletter University Relations Featured Shared success benefits Loading Results No Match Found View All Results Be ready for tomorrow’s cyber threats, today PwC powered by Microsoft security technology Copy link Link copied to clipboard Say hello to a more secure future Elevated threats and regulatory scrutiny mean cybersecurity has never been a higher priority. Most business and security leaders agree: cybersecurity and data protection risks are on the rise and will likely continue to evolve with emerging technology. Preparing your business to meet increasingly complex and unexpected risks can be overwhelming, but it doesn’t have to be. PwC’s deep industry experience and Microsoft’s secure technology empower businesses to confidently build trust in your tomorrow. Together, we’ll help solve your most complex business challenges. Microsoft Copilot for Security Addressing cybersecurity challenges with an advanced AI solution Copilot for Security helps organizations adapt swiftly to ever-evolving cyber threats, identifying, responding and neutralizing them rapidly to keep operations secure. PwC offers a two-step approach for Copilot for Security. The readiness assessment helps organizations prepare for a Copilot for Security rollout by identifying requirements and opportunities for enhancements and providing recommendations to best leverage the technology stack. The implementation phase manages the integration of Copilot for Security to existing technology stack including creation of prompt books, skills, custom plugins, updates to standard operating procedures, and assisting with improvement of detection engineering and indicators of compromise processes. Using Copilot for Security, PwC can offer your organization a way to streamline SOC operations and increase efficiency through advanced automation, helping to effectively combat cyber threats and enhance your security posture. Learn more Playback of this video is not currently available 1:01 Make giant leaps with generative AI PwC is honored to partner with Microsoft to bring Copilot for Security to our joint customers. With Copilot for Security our customers can swiftly identify, investigate, and resolve threats by harnessing the potential of generative AI. Building on our recent investment to expand and scale our AI offerings, we're excited to team with Microsoft on bringing Copilot for Security to our joint customers, augmenting their ability to predict - prevent - and rapidly respond to security threats. This will help empower all of our customers and provide new opportunities leveraging the responsible use of generative AI. Sean Joyce, Global Cybersecurity & Privacy Leader, US Cyber, Risk and Regulatory Leader Quick reads on critical cybersecurity topics In five minutes, get the latest on topics like portfolio rationalization, third party risk, and security incident and event management. Read the perspectives How PwC and Microsoft can help you simplify cyber Case study: How a Fortune 500 company shut down fraud, bribery and corruption Global fraud, bribery and corruption is a $4 trillion per year problem. PwC’s Risk Command, powered by Microsoft Sentinel helped identify risks that previously may have gone undetected. Explore how a global company made risk and compliance their competitive advantage. Reimagine compliance Be cyber-ready with PwC’s security solutions powered by Microsoft Security demystified Increase cyber readiness while reducing risk and complexity. Incident Response Portfolio Rationalization Cyber Operations Defender for IoT Supply Chain Incident Response goes beyond addressing technical infrastructure and removing threat actors. It also involves crisis management, collaboration, and communication. PwC and Microsoft can help address the diverse and complex problems that arise during and after a breach. We can work closely with you to help remediate and update your processes and systems, enhancing the ability to prevent or detect future incidents. Read about our integrated IR solution Watch to learn more about IR Too many security tools can bring more complexity and inhibit risk reduction activities. We can simplify your portfolio—gathering information about your existing applications and conducting scenario analysis to identify gaps in your technology. We’ll work closely with you to rationalize your security stack and improve your security capabilities—reducing the cost and complexity of your cybersecurity program while supporting your risk reduction goals. Simplify your security stack: Watch Traditional security incident and event management (SIEM) solutions cannot keep pace with the increasing volume and complexity of today’s cyber threats. Our Threat Detection & Response (TDR) services range from designing and building cloud-native, next-generation security operation centers (SOC), SIEM and extended detection and response (XDR) operating models to ongoing operations, 24/7. With Rapid Replacement, we seamlessly migrate your existing SIEM and SOC to Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft 365 Defender XDR. Rapid Release goes one step further to build a full-stack TDR platform that supports the transition to a hybrid on- or off-site managed service with continuous alert monitoring and response. Centralize threat monitoring: Watch The convergence of information technology (IT), operational technology (OT) and the Internet of Things (IoT) creates a complex and disconnected digital ecosystem that is difficult for providers to integrate and secure. Our Microsoft Defender for IoT services combine PwC’s OT cybersecurity capabilities with Microsoft’s technology to help companies get better visibility into their OT networks and data. We can help your organization quickly identify OT assets, identify threats within your environment, improve resilience and keep your operations moving forward. An optimized supply chain is designed to meet evolving customer demands and create more business opportunities—while streamlining costs and efficiencies. Our cloud-based solutions include continuous security and centralized management to help simplify the process of monitoring, updating and identifying threats, using analytics to help discover powerful insights. We can design an intelligent and interconnected digital supply chain that’s transparent and secure across your organization—from operations, to marketing, to fulfillment. Enhance network intelligence: Deep dive Compliance, met Satisfy the changing demands of compliance requirements and regulations with confidence. Information Governance Information Protection Confidential Computing CMMC Valuable information needs protection in all stages of its lifecycle. We create, store, use, archive and delete information—and let you know exactly where it lives. From information protection, to records management, to knowledge sharing and secure collaboration—we can make the most of your information in a more secure and user-friendly environment. Govern your data: Deep dive | Watch Growing information assets requires increased visibility into where your sensitive data resides. We perform a current state assessment to identify sensitive data management gaps that will help inform process enhancements such as defining the governance structure, roles and responsibilities in your organization. We can classify, protect and govern your data by formalizing the processes, controls and metrics that support your information security strategy. Data in the cloud isn’t always secure. Get full control over your data by securing it in an isolated environment that allows users to analyze it without exposing it to malicious actors. We’ve unleashed new opportunities for collaboration that can reduce your attack surface—so you can shift your focus from worrying about protecting your business to spending more time leading it. Every company within the Department of Defense supply chain with access to certain data types such as federal contract information and Controlled Unclassified Information—not just the defense industrial base—will be required to become Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) certified. We’ll help establish baseline security measures and create customized recommendations for your business with compliance-by-design, so you can bring your cybersecurity controls up to the new standard. Identity and access managed Stay secure with additional layers of protection. Microsoft Entra ID Governance Insider Risk Zero Trust Identity and access management As more businesses continue to utilize the cloud, replacing an aging identity management tool is needed so you can help govern your identity and access lifecycles, as well as secure privileged access for your administrators. Microsoft Entra ID Governance helps focus on answering the following questions: Who has access and what do they have access to? How is that access being used? Is that access being controlled? Can I assess that the controls are operating? PwC's identity and access management services can help across all capability phases, from helping to assess your existing capabilities deployed in SAP IDM and strategize and plan your target future state and vision with Microsoft Entra ID Governance. PwC can also support and operate the environment as a managed service after the go live. Insider risk is on the rise, and preventing it is a critical component of cybersecurity that requires attention from all stakeholders. We can build insider risk prevention detection and response capabilities from the ground up or complement your existing environment. Accelerate your insider risk program to help reduce risk against your most sensitive assets and detect risky behavior across your organization’s systems. Reduce insider risk: Deep dive Security incidents have exploited software vulnerabilities and insufficient identity controls to gain access to valuable data or disrupt critical business operations. Organizations are exploring modern comprehensive zero trust solutions to effectively protect against today’s cyber threats. PwC’s Microsoft Zero Trust is a three-phased approach focused on building a secure foundation around users and devices, enabling conditional access and applying segmentation to protect your company’s information. PwC has collaborated with Microsoft on Entra Private Access and Internet Access products, contributing to product enhancements and gaining experience with the new products. With industry-leading experience in Cybersecurity and Zero Trust, PwC can strategize, design, implement, and operationalize Zero Trust solutions tailored to your specific business needs using Microsoft's Entra Private Access and Internet Access products. Build a secure foundation: Quick read Devices, apps, online services and networks are at risk when your credentials are used or stolen. Passwordless technology uses authentication factors, biometrics and other mechanisms in lieu of passwords to help protect your personal and enterprise assets from unauthorized users. We combine device trust with risk controls to help reduce threats, so you can be certain that your accounts are safe from malicious actors. PwC named member of The Microsoft Intelligent Security Association "The security relationship between Microsoft and PwC has helped our joint customers better understand their IT environments, respond to threats and adapt to the changing security landscape. We are thrilled that PwC has achieved Microsoft verified Managed XDR solution status – we look forward to expanding our alliance even further through the MISA program." -Mandana Javaheri, Microsoft Global Senior Director, Cybersecurity Business Development Playback of this video is not currently available 0:42 Reimagine Cybersecurity PwC achieves Microsoft verified Managed XDR solution status with Threat Detection and Response Have confidence in who you’re working with PwC & Microsoft Perspectives Quick five-minute reads to catch you up on the latest security topics Passwordless authentication A look into helpful questions before transitioning to passwordless authentication. SAP on Microsoft Cloud A look into considerations and benefits of migrating SAP to the cloud. Zero Trust security A look into the five pillars for building a zero-trust strategy. Journey to cybersecurity A look at a multi-cloud, cost-efficient cyber strategy. Third-party risk management A look at uncovering the risks that lurk in your supply chains. Security incident and event management A look at automating cyber threat management in as little as six weeks. Application Security A look at an agile approach to application security with Microsoft Defender. < Back < Back [+] Read More Microsoft recognizes PwC as a 2024 Partner of the Year PwC is reimagining the possible, creating solutions on Microsoft tech, that untangle complex world problems. Together, PwC and Microsoft are empowering the world to achieve more in industry and beyond. Learn more . Contact us Collin Perry Principal, Cyber, Risk and Regulatory, PwC US Email Follow us Thank you for your interest in PwC We have received your information. Should you need to refer back to this submission in the future, please use reference number "refID" . Required fields are marked with an asterisk( * ) Please correct the errors and send your information again. First Name * Last Name * Company Name * Job Title * Job Function * Accounting Advisor Analytics Audit Committee Chair Audit Committee Member Beneficiary Board Member Business Unit/P&L Owner Chair of the Board Client Experience Compliance Corporate Development Digital Distribution Diversity Executive Family Officer Finance Human Resources Information Security Information Technology Internal Audit Investments Investor Relations Legal Marketing Operations Other Owner Private Equity Investment Professionals Private Equity Operating Partners Procurement Real Estate/Facility Management Risk Sales Strategy Supply Chain Sustainability Tax Transformation Trustee Email address * Location * - Please select United States United Kingdom Canada Netherlands Australia South Africa France Germany Singapore Sweden Brazil ================= Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong SAR, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea (North) Korea (South) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau SAR, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Northern Mariana Islands Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia Spain Sri Lanka St. Helena St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Details about your inquiry By submitting your email address, you acknowledge that you have read the Privacy Statement and that you consent to our processing data in accordance with the Privacy Statement (including international transfers). If you change your mind at any time about wishing to receive the information from us, you can send us an email message using the Contact Us page. Submit Get in touch Hide Audit and Assurance services Consulting Tax services Newsroom Alumni US offices Contact us © 2017
							
							 - 2025 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. Privacy Data Privacy Framework Cookie info Legal Terms and conditions Site provider Site map Your Privacy Choices
