PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRICIII_6-6-12_WG8-Final-Report_Pt2.pdf:
March 2013 WORKING GROUP - 8
E9-1-1 Best Practices
Final Report – Part 2
Page 1 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Table of Contents
1 Results in Brief ......................................................................................................................... 3
1.1 Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... 3
2 Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 5
2.1 CSRIC Structure ............................................................................................................... 6
2.2 Active Working Group 8 Team Members........................................................................ 6
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology ........................................................................................ 7
3.1 Objective .......................................................................................................................... 7
3.2 Scope ................................................................................................................................ 7
3.3 Methodology .................................................................................................................... 8
3.3.1 Approach to E9-1-1 Best Practices ........................................................................... 9
3.3.1.1 Current Best Practices ........................................................................................... 9
3.3.1.2 PSAP and Consumer Best Practices ................................................................... 10
3.3.1.3 Elements of Best Practice Framework ................................................................ 10
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations ............................................................................ 17
4.1 Analysis .......................................................................................................................... 17
4.2 Findings .......................................................................................................................... 19
4.3 Recommendations .......................................................................................................... 21
5 Conclusions ............................................................................................................................ 22
6 Appendix 1 – CSRIC III Council Considerations .................................................................. 23
7 Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices ...................................................................................... 24
8 Appendix 3 – Consumer Best Practices ................................................................................. 72
9 Appendix 4 – PSAP Best Practices ........................................................................................ 87
Page 2 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
1 Results in Brief
1.1 Executive Summary
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council's (CSRIC) mission is to
provide recommendations to the FCC to ensure, among other things, optimal security and
reliability of communications systems, including telecommunications, media, and public safety.
As defined in the CSRIC Charter for Working Group 8 – E9-1-1 Best Practices, 9-1-1 service is
a vital part of the nation's emergency response and disaster preparedness system and 9-1-1
service reliability is vital to public safety and consumer wellbeing. As such, during CSRIC II,
and before that the Network Reliability & Interoperability Council (NRIC), a substantial body of
voluntary Best Practices was developed to promote 9-1-1 reliability. 9-1-1 Best Practices are
vital to maintaining a dependable and efficient 9-1-1 infrastructure.
Working Group 8 (WG8) was tasked with the review of existing CSRIC/NRIC 9-1-1 Best
Practices and to recommend ways to improve them, accounting for the passage of time,
technology changes, operational factors, and any identified gaps. As part of this effort, WG8
was also commissioned to provide recommendations regarding the creation of two new non-
industry Best Practice categories: (i) Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and (ii) 9-1-1
Consumer which would include recommendations regarding how to better engage PSAPs in the
Best Practice process.
In June 2012 WG8 presented its Final Report – Part 1 E9-1-1 Best Practices which
recommended modifications and new Best Practices that support communication providers in
preparing for natural or man-made disasters. These Best Practices will ensure that
communication providers are able to restore service quickly in the aftermath of a disaster.
This Final Report – Part 2 is the conclusion of a larger review of industry Best Practices
intended to modernize those that relate specifically to E9-1-1 and to provide the initial structure
for the newly created non industry Best Practice categories.
For the modernization work, a subteam was established to focus on the analyses and was
designated as WG8 Subteam 2 (WG8-2). This team considered the entire set of existing Best
Practices and analyzed them from three separate viewpoints as well as gap analysis:
1. Best Practices that have a direct and immediate impact on E9-1-1 reliability and
resiliency, the review and update of those deemed out of date or aged.
2. Best Practices that previously were not identified as interrelated with Public Safety
that needed modified to include the new “Public Safety” implementer category
approved by the CSRIC Council vote in Final Report – Part 1 in June 20121.
1 Working Group 8 Appendix 1 page 19 Non-Best Practice Recommendations “Working Group
8 recommends that an implementer category be recognized for future Best Practice development
of “Public Safety” to appropriately recognize the importance of this key contributor to E9-1-1
Page 3 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
3. Best Practices that although not directly linked to E9-1-1 nor required the new Public
Safety implementer category, if implemented, could have a downstream
improvement to the reliability and/or resiliency of the underlying E9-1-1 network.
For the development of the two new categories of Best Practices work, a subteam was
established to focus on the outline, structure, and framework and was designated as WG8
Subteam 3 (WG8-3). This team developed the concept and framework needed to provide
ongoing guidance and structure for the new categories as well as development of new Best
Practices to seed the initial Best Practice development.
For Part 2 of the Final Report, the CSRIC III is being asked to accept this document and the
recommended Best Practices contained within, and to take appropriate future steps regarding
any gaps found by this Working Group that were determined to be out of scope during this
initiative or require future work by a CSRIC Working Group.
reliability and resiliency.”
Page 4 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
2 Introduction
CSRIC was established as a federal advisory committee designed to provide recommendations
to the Commission regarding Best Practices and actions the Commission may take to ensure
optimal operability, security, reliability, and resiliency of communications systems, including
telecommunications, media, and public safety communications systems.
Due to the large scope of the CSRIC mandate, the committee then divided into a set of Working
Groups, each of which was designed to address individual issue areas. In total, 10 different
Working Groups were created, including Working Group 8 on E9-1-1 Best Practices.
This Final Report – Part 2 E9-1-1 Best Practices documents the efforts undertaken by CSRIC
WG8 with respect to the review and modernization of existing CSRIC/NRIC 9-1-1 Best
Practices and recommendations on the two new categories of Best Practices referenced above.
The team considered the ongoing relevance of these Best Practices, the transition to newer
technologies for E9-1-1 call delivery, and how existing Best Practices that currently address the
areas of Internet Protocol (IP) and Cyber issues could influence the reliability and resiliency of
next generation E9-1-1 platforms either directly or indirectly.
WG8 officially began its work on November 17, 2011, and was given until June 2012 to
produce Final Report – Part 1 and December 2012 to produce this Final Report – Part 2 on
overall Best Practice recommendations. The focus of WG8 was to review the existing set of
1,022 voluntary industry Best Practices developed over the years by the various Network
Reliability and Interoperability Councils (NRIC) and the previous CSRIC Council.
With the introduction of Next Generation E9-1-1 services and the overall changes in technology,
an in-depth review of Best Practices that relate to Cyber security, Physical security, Disaster
Recovery and Mutual Aid, Network Reliability and Interoperability, and Public Safety were
found to be in scope for this team. This working group is made up of experts from public safety
and industry which provided an end to end E9-1-1 network view.
The team began analysis of the entire Best Practice data set and worked to identify those items
that would have a direct impact on the Working Group’s task of improving them, accounting for
the passage of time, technology changes, operational factors, and any identified gaps. Once the
unrelated Best Practices were removed, those that remained could be further analyzed and
applied to the framework that was developed in this report.
Page 5 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
2.1 CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) III
CSRIC Steering Committee
Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Co-Chairs Chair Co-Chairs Chair Chair Co-Chairs Co-Chairs
Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group Working Group
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Working Group 5:
Working Group 1: Working Group 2: Working Group 3: Working Group 4: Working Group 6: Working Group 7: Working Group 9:
DNSSEC Working Group 8:
Next Generation Next Generation E911 Location Network Security Secure BGP Botnet Legacy Broadcast Working Group 10:
Implementation E911 Best
911 Alerting Accuracy Best Practices Deployment Remediation Alerting Issues 911 Prioritization
Practices for ISPs Practices
2.2 Active Working Group 8 Team Members
Working Group 8 – E9-1-1 Best Practices consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Robin Howard – Chair WG 8 & WG8-1 Verizon
Donna Bethea-Murphy Iridium
Mary Boyd – Chair WG8-2 Intrado
Jeff Hall T-Mobile
Roger Hixon National Emergency Number Association
Jeff Hubbard CenturyLink
Elise Kim 9-1-1 FOR KIDS: Public Education
Cathy Kurnas Cassidian Communications
Gail Linnell Applied Communication Sciences
Kathryn Martin Access Partnership
Alisa Simmons Tarrant County 9-1-1 District
Dorothy Spears-Dean Virginia Information Technologies Agency
Paul Stoffels – Chair WG8-3 Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
(AT&T)
Jackie Voss Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
Ethan Lucarelli Wiley Rein
Table 1 - List of Working Group Members
Page 6 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
3 Objective, Scope, and Methodology
3.1 Objective
Objective 1: Review and enhance current Best Practices
This objective was to review the current set of industry Best Practices and identify a subset of
those to be studied for E9-1-1 reliability and resiliency applications. Qualifying Best Practices
would be further analyzed to determine any modernization, enhancements, or clarifications that
could be made to improve their use by industry and public safety authorities.
A framework would be developed to efficiently identify Best Practices that are within scope of
this work effort and could be used by any Service Provider, Network Operator, or Public Safety
agency to improve reliability and resiliency of the Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) or
Internet Protocol (IP) based E9-1-1 networks.
Objective 2: Create new category of Public Safety Answering Point Best Practices
This objective was to design the framework and structure and make initial recommendations on
the development of a new set of Best Practices that can be used by Public Safety Answering
Points (PSAPs) to share their successful policies and procedures nationally similar to how Best
Practices transcend the communications industry today.
Objective 3: Create new category of Consumer Best Practices
The final objective of WG8 was to also design framework for the development of a second new
set of Best Practices that public safety agencies and the general public could use to educate on
the proper use of the E9-1-1 and emergency call/notification systems to enhance the safety of the
American public at large. The goal was to provide standardization of practice form and to
establish a permanent location for these educational tools for ease of future development and
use.
3.2 Scope
Working Subteam 8-2:
The scope of WG8-2 subteam for this Final Report was in part to analyze current Best Practices
that apply, or could apply, to E9-1-1 Legacy2 or Next Generation IP networks. Given this scope,
the group found it essential to place an initial focus on the full set of 1,022 Best Practices
developed over the years by previous NRIC Focus Groups and CSRIC Working Groups.
The full Best Practice data set does not apply to E9-1-1; therefore it was in scope for this team to
review and reject those Best Practices that would not directly relate to the reliability and
resiliency of the E9-1-1 network infrastructure and facilities. Within the scope of the working
group were also the development of new Best Practices, and the identification of any gaps, that
will provide additional guidance to industry and public safety authorities.
Working Subteam 8-3:
2 Legacy network in this Final Report is a term to define the telecommunication Time Division
Multiplexing (TDM) Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) network architecture pre-
internet protocol and pre-Next Generation platform.
Page 7 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
The scope of WG8-3 subteam for this Final Report was to use the existing industry Best Practice
concept and design the structure, process, and framework for a new set of non-industry
voluntary Best Practices for PSAPs and consumer use of E9-1-1. Also in scope was the
development of a new standard format focusing on the flow from conception through publishing
online to provide access for PSAPs and the general public.
It is important that Working Group 8 reminds readers that industry Best Practices are voluntary
in nature and may not apply to all Service Providers, Network Operators, or Public Safety
entities due to scope, cost, feasibility, or resource limitations. Best Practices should be used by
experts who have the overall experience to interpret the individual Best Practice in the manner in
which it was intended.
3.3 Methodology
Due to the scope of the work required Working Group 8 was separated into three sub-teams to
address specific areas of the Best Practice work.
Sub-team 8-1 “E9-1-1 Disaster Best Practices” was tasked with modifying and/or developing
new Best Practices that will support communication providers in preparing for natural or man-
made disasters. This sub-team developed Final Report - Part 1 which focuses on the Best
Practices that will ensure that communication providers are able to restore service quickly in the
aftermath of a disaster. This includes how E9-1-1 traffic might be prioritized in such situations.
This report was delivered to the Council and approved in June 2012.
Sub-group 8-2 “Current E9-1-1 Best Practices” established methodologies for the review of
Best Practices that were developed by previous NRIC and CSRIC councils. These assisted the
team in identifying the subset of data that would be further examined and modified according to
the charter. Generally the sub-team agreed that:
1. Best Practices that, in their expert opinion, had a direct or indirect impact on E9-1-1
reliability or resiliency would qualify for enhancement, modernization, or deletion.
2. A Best Practice could be recommended for deletion, even if not 9-1-1 related, as a
general housekeeping responsibility if that Best Practice was determined to be no longer
relevant to industry.
3. When enhancing or modifying a Best Practice, the structure outlined in the ATIS
Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC) Best Practice Tutorial3 would be used
whenever possible.
4. Best Practices determined to be out of scope by the majority of the team would be
discounted from the final data set and from any further consideration.
5. Qualifying Best Practices that contained multiple concepts or thoughts would be
restructured into multiple Best Practices.
6. If a gap was identified and if possible a recommended Best Practice would be drafted,
otherwise the gap would be documented for future CSRIC Council action in the Final
Report.
3 ATIS NRSC Best Practice Tutorial, November 2011 Presented to Working Group 8 on
December 14, 2011 found at http://www.atis.org/bestpractices/Tutorial.aspx
Page 8 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Sub-group 8-3 “PSAP and Consumer Best Practices” established methodologies for the creation
of two new categories of Best Practices. These assisted the team in developing processes to
establish an ongoing framework for development, availability, and future review needed for
these new categories. Generally the sub-team agreed that:
1. Initial set of Best Practices to “seed” both new categories would be developed from
existing government sources, freely available sources, or from sub-team expertise.
2. The structure of a Best Practice as outlined in the ATIS NRSC Best Practice Tutorial
would be used as the model for the new categories.
3. Best Practices would be written with a voluntary nature in mind so as not to imply a
mandatory environment.
4. It would be assumed that new Best Practices would eventually be placed online in a
similar fashion as industry Best Practices.
5. Best Practices in these two new categories would not be integrated with existing industry
Best Practices.
3.3.1 Approach to E9-1-1 Best Practices
3.3.1.1 Current Best Practices
A three step evaluation process was utilized to review the current set of Best Practices as
outlined in Figure 1 below. It was necessary to review the data set in a multi-step manner to
first quickly eliminate a bulk of Best Practices that were out of scope for the team or identify
those obviously out of date that could be recommended for deletion. Secondly, split the data set
into two parts, one part that would be enhanced only through addition of a note to the
Remarks/Comments section of the Best Practice, and the second part constituting Best Practices
that needed modifications or restructuring. The third and final evaluation step was to complete
the bulk of the modifications and complete the gap identification process.
Page 9 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
3.3.1.2 PSAP and Consumer Best Practices
The creation of two new categories of Best Practices required the development of the entire
framework that would be necessary to establish an initial set of Best Practices to “seed” an
ongoing process. The structure of the new categories although similar to the current industry
Best Practices would also need unique Industry Roles, Keywords, Categories, and Status
definitions. Recommendations would also need to be developed on how to maintain the new
Best Practices, where and how they would be stored, and what entity(s) should provide web
hosting services. Another important consideration for these two new categories was to create
the framework for legitimizing the Best Practices through a body such as CSRIC to establish
them as a recognized and certified source of information for public safety agencies and the
general public. The approach for this framework is demonstrated in Figure 2.
3.3.1.3 Elements of Best Practice Framework
There were specific framework elements required for the creation of two new non-industry Best
Practice categories. This framework is intended to establish an ongoing process similar to that
used for industry Best Practices to provide maximum efficiency going forward.
Adopt Best Practice Definitions and Structure:
For each of the new categories, Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and Consumer, slightly
different approaches were necessary. PSAP Best Practices would follow more closely with
industry format both in structure and use. Consumer Best Practices would share structure with
both industry and PSAP, however, with an educational theme included could be written as a
“good idea” which is generally avoided with industry Best Practices. Generally, development of
a Best Practice should meet the following guidelines:
Page 10 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
1. Proven through actual implementation – more than “just a good idea”
2. Address classes of problems (rather than one time issues)
3. A single concept should be captured in each practice (one thought, one practice)
4. Should not endorse specific commercial documents, products or services
5. Developed through rigorous deliberation and expert consensus
6. Confirmed by a broad set of stakeholders
7. Should not be assumed to be applicable in all situations or to all industry types
8. Does not imply mandatory implementation
Both categories were able to be closely structured to these guidelines; however, basic industry
structure had to be adapted to apply to the new categories. For industry Best Practices the basic
structure is listed below in Figure 3.
To adapt the current structure to meet the needs of the new categories, the sub-team had to
address the key structure elements:
 Network Types(s)
 Industry Role(s)
 Status definitions for Critical, Highly Important, and Important
 Best Practice Category
 Keywords
For each new category the sub-team adapted the Best Practice framework to adjust for these
items. The importance of these adaptations is explained below.
Network Types(s) – In the Industry Best Practice structure these are used to identify the
communications sector(s) that the Best Practice applies to. Currently there are 11 Network
Types to choose from that were not appropriate for the new categories and were modified as
listed below.
Consumer Best Practices:
Page 11 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Type(s) were modified to include:
 9-1-1 Agencies  Business Owners  Children
 Employees  Government  Home Owners
 Parents/Guardians/Caregivers  Teachers/Trainers
PSAP Best Practices:
Network Types(s) were modified to include:
 9-1-1 Agencies  Government
Industry Role(s) – In the industry Best Practice structure these are used to identify what
industry segment is being identified such as Service Provider, Network Operator, Equipment
Provider, Public Safety or Government. Used in a Best Practice for example as “Service
Providers and Network Operators shall…” this would not be appropriate for these new
categories of Best Practices.
Consumer Best Practices:
Industry Role(s) were modified to include:
 Consumers  9-1-1 Callers  Trainers
 Public Safety Entities  TTY/TDD Users
PSAP Best Practices:
Industry Role(s) were modified to include:
 PSAPs
Status definitions for Critical, Highly Important, and Important – Developed in CSRIC II
by Working Group 6, status definitions categorize each Best Practice to a level of importance to
assist users of Best Practices during implementation4. The definitions established for industry
Best Practices required adaptation to adequately address the categorization needs.
Consumer Best Practice definitions:
Critical Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Significantly enhances the potential for a 9-1-1 caller to reach emergency services
successfully.
4 January 2011, CSRIC Working Group 6: Best Practice Implementation Final Report, page 7
Section 3.1 Approach.
Page 12 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
 Significantly enhances the ability of consumers to properly set up and use 9-1-1
emergency services.
 Significantly enhances the safety of the general public regarding 9-1-1 emergency
services.
 Enhances the accuracy of information transfer between 9-1-1 callers and 9-1-1 call
takers.
 Significantly enhances the ability of public safety authorities to locate a 9-1-1 caller.
Highly Important Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Reduces the misuse of 9-1-1 emergency services for non-emergencies.
 Reduces unsuccessful 9-1-1 calls by unintentional consumer and 9-1-1 caller actions.
 Enhances the knowledge and safety of consumers and 9-1-1 callers regarding proper 9-1-
1 call etiquette.
 Enhances the ability of public safety authorities to locate a 9-1-1 caller.
Important Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Promotes education of 9-1-1.
 Enhances awareness to the public on limitations to 9-1-1 services.
 Provides awareness to the risks of using 9-1-1 for non-emergency purposes.
 Promotes steps consumers can take to ensure public safety authorities can locate them
during an emergency.
 Provides general guidelines for consumers regarding 9-1-1 emergency services.
PSAP Best Practice definitions:
Critical Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Significantly reduces the potential for a catastrophic failure of critical communications
network infrastructure and/or services.
 Significantly reduces the duration or severity of critical communications outages.
 Materially limits and/or contains the geographic area affected by a communications
failure from cascading to other or adjacent geographic areas.
 Affects critical communications components (e.g., ALI/ANI) for all network
configurations.
 Preserves priority communications for key personnel involved in disaster response and
recovery.
Highly Important Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Improves the likelihood of emergency call completion, with caller information, to the
appropriate response agency (i.e., Public Safety Answering Point), ensuring access to
emergency communications for all callers.
 Improves the efficiency and promote the availability of networks and the likelihood of
call completion and message transmission (e.g., e-mail, instant messaging) for key
personnel involved in disaster response and recovery.
 Improves detection of network events by network operators and service providers.
Page 13 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
 Implementation has improved network reliability but may not be applicable for all
PSAPs.
Important Best Practices include those which meet any of the following standards:
 Promote sound provisioning and maintenance or reliable, resilient networks, services,
and equipment, but were not otherwise classified.
 Common sense BPs that entities generally adopt.
Best Practice Category and Keywords – In industry Best Practice structure, this identifies
what the Best Practice is primarily addressing and provides keywords for web searching. For
the industry there are 38 distinct categories available to select from, many which are not
adequate for the new categories. The keywords were most adaptable for the PSAP Best
Practices; however, for the Consumer category several new keywords were developed.
Consumer Best Practices:
Category and Keywords were modified to include:
 Alternate Methods  Business  Emergency Personnel
 Device Use  Family Education  Knowing Your Location
 Next Generation  Residential  Training Methods
 Updating Information  What to Say and Do  When to Call
 Wireless  Wireline
PSAP Best Practices:
Category and Keywords were modified to include:
 Access Control  Buildings  Business Continuity
 Cyber Security  Disaster Recovery  Documentation
 Emergency Preparedness  Encryption  Essential Services
 Hardware  Human Resources  Network Design
 Network Elements  Network Interoperability  Network Operations
 Network Provisioning  Pandemic  Physical Security Management
 Policy  Power  Procedures
 Security Systems  Software  Supervision
 Technical Support  Training and Awareness
Identify Best Practice Web Hosting Options:
The Working Group addressed how the new Best Practice categories should be made available
to the PSAP community and the general public. Industry Best Practices are found on two
mirrored web sites, one managed by the FCC and one managed by the Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS)5. It is recommended by the Working Group that
5 Both websites can be accessed at http://www.atis.org/nrsc/bpresource.asp.
Page 14 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
the new categories be kept separate and unique from the current set of Best Practices and not be
integrated due to the different audiences and topics and to prevent general confusion that would
result from integrating them with the industry set. The Working Group contacted both the FCC
and ATIS regarding their willingness to host these new Best Practice categories. The structure
and format were designed to minimize code development needed to bring the new Best Practices
online quickly following adoption by CSRIC. Both the FCC and ATIS have agreed to support
moving toward hosting these in a similar fashion to the current industry Best Practice set.
It should be noted that although recommendations for hosting the Best Practices are being made
in this report, the actual hosting process would not begin until the Council approves this Final
Report. Additionally, the FCC/ATIS hosting recommendation does not take into account other
options that might be equally acceptable from another industry or public safety entity. One
alternative is the National 9-1-1 Program which funds a National 9-1-1 Resource Center, which
has a publicly accessible, searchable database of documents of all types related to 9-1-1. The
site for the Resource Center can be accessed by going to www.911.gov and clicking on
“Resource Center.”
Develop First Set of Best Practices from Existing Sources:
The concept of developing the two new Best Practice categories, PSAP and Consumer,
originated from the myriad of “best practices” that can be found through numerous documents
online. The fundamental problem with these documents, and their insightful best practices, is
that as time goes on they become aged, out of date, and become more difficult to find as internet
web pages change, priorities change, or search engines index the information deep into queries
making them hard to locate. The objective was to preserve these best practices from eventual
obscurity and associate them with a time proven process where they could be adequately
managed, periodically reviewed, and modernized as needed by subject matter experts.
For the PSAP category, the seeding came from existing government documents and websites
particularly the FCC and US Department of Transportation. For the Consumer category, the
team used a combination of government sponsored documents and subject matter expertise on
the Working Group. It should be noted that the intent was to create the ongoing framework and
establish the beginning set of Best Practices for these two new categories. A more inclusive set
will need to be developed over time as was the case for the industry set.
Recommend Ongoing Review and Update Process:
The framework being developed for the two new Best Practice categories included ongoing
support by appropriate entities and regular review of the Best Practices as needed to keep them
current and relevant. Best Practices by their nature change as technology, situations, processes,
etc. change. A successful process is one that includes a standard practice for:
1. Periodic reviews.
2. Ability of interested parties to recommend changes to existing Best Practices.
3. Creation of new Best Practices by impacted stakeholders.
Industry Best Practices are cared for by a process that includes CSRIC, the FCC, the ATIS
Page 15 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC)6 and Best Practice stakeholders.
Outlined below in Figure 4, the high level process flow for the Industry Best Practices is
depicted. For industry this has generally worked well and has resulted in a robust and
dependable set of Best Practices. The process begins with defining the need for a review, gap
analysis, or other driver. The needs can come from several sources such as a CSRIC Charter,
FCC requests to industry, the industry itself, or from other stakeholders. Once the need is
defined the Best Practices are reviewed, modified, deleted, created, etc. by a set of experts
gathered for that purpose. The next step in the process is acceptance and normally consists of a
set of Best Practices being brought by a Focus Group or Working Group to the NRIC/CSRIC
Council for a vote. This provides a wide review and public acceptance before any Best Practice
is assigned an official identifying number by the FCC. While a Best Practice may be created
and used between CSRICs, it is authenticated by the Council vote. Once the Best Practice is
accepted and, if required, given an official number it placed on both available websites hosted
by the FCC and ATIS.
With the introduction of the new categories of PSAP and Consumer Best Practices Working
Group 8 is recommending this same process be used with the exception of changes to the define
need and acceptance steps (Figure 5). The recommendations only apply to the new categories
and not the current industry Best Practice process. When defining the need for a PSAP or
Consumer Best Practice the addition of “PSAP” as an valid entity as a source for initial need
development is required. Currently a Best Practice that has been modified or newly created is
held in a pending status until a CSRIC Council vote is held to accept it. Working Group 8 is
recommending that two additional acceptance entities be included for the PSAP and Consumer
Best Practices categories in lieu of a full CSRIC Council vote. The FCC Public Safety and
Homeland Security Bureau (PSHSB) and the ATIS NRSC have nearly two decades of
experience in Best Practice management. The ATIS NRSC also has a standing Best Practice
Task Force that regularly reviews industry Best Practices and provides modified or new items to
the FCC PSHSB for consideration. These modified or new items are typically forwarded by the
6 In its 1993 Report to the Nation, the Network Reliability Council (NRC) recommended
formation of the Network Reliability Steering Committee (NRSC), under the auspices of ATIS
for the purpose of monitoring network reliability on an ongoing basis.
Page 16 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
FCC to a current CSRIC to follow the acceptance process.
These new categories, particularly the Consumer category, will not always need to undergo this
rigorous process of CSRIC review and voting. By accepting this recommendation the existing
CSRIC vote process may be used during any future charter, however, a Best Practice would be
permitted to be accepted and placed online outside the CSRIC after a thorough and joint
assessment between the FCC and NRSC using expertise already available.
Publish and Legitimize Best Practice Sets:
Following the acceptance of the new Best Practice categories the publishing to online access
status will need to be further implemented. Working Group 8 recommends that this work be
provided to the FCC and/or ATIS following the approval of this final report and begin the
design and implementation phase onto one or both of the online Best Practice systems.
Working Group 8 recommends the acceptance of this framework, under the auspices of CSRIC,
and should be established and certified by government and industry for the categories of PSAP
and Consumer Best Practices.
Working Group 8 recommends that upon the successful online implementation of the new
categories on the FCC and/or ATIS Best Practice websites that Public Notices or Press Releases
be issued to further support the establishment of the framework.
4 Analysis, Findings and Recommendations
4.1 Analysis
Working Group Subteam 2 (WG8-2) approached the review of current Best Practices by making
several assessments of the existing set of 1,023 Critical, Highly Important, and Important Best
Practices. During the first review, the team focused on isolating Best Practices that were
directly associated with the 9-1-1 network, supported the delivery of 9-1-1, or those that the
Page 17 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
team determined needed further study. During this first pass the team identified 730 Best
Practices that would constitute the team’s workload for the remainder of the project.
The team settled on a two-step process for review and modifying the Best Practices. The first
set was those directly related to E9-1-1 and the second those that could impact the E9-1-1
infrastructure indirectly if implemented. It was also agreed that the introduction of the “Public
Safety” implementer category approved during the June 2012 CSRIC Council meeting would
also need to be added to appropriate Best Practices.
The analysis used the principles set forth in the NRSC Best Practice tutorial regarding proper
structure and format. This resulted in the restructuring of several Best Practices to the “One
thought one Best Practice” principle and direct enhancements to the Best Practice wording.
WG8-2 established that in numerous cases the Best Practice being reviewed remained relevant
and required no alteration other than the addition of the Public Safety implementer category. By
updating the Best Practices with this newly approved class it emphasizes the prominence of this
group of stakeholders and provides an enhanced set of Best Practices directed toward Public
Safety.
WG8-2 also analyzed a group of Best Practices that were not directly related to the 9-1-1
infrastructure. Analysis determined that certain Best Practices if adopted by the appropriate
implementer (e.g. Network Operator, Service Provider) could improve the reliability or
resiliency of networks that 9-1-1 traffic and data may traverse. Regarding these particular Best
Practices the team established that these would not necessitate direct modification based on their
content and intent. It was agreed that a special notation in the Best Practice remarks section
would serve to alert the user that this Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 operations. The intent of
the special notation is to provide an additional search parameter within the Best Practices to
identify indirectly related items and provide users additional guidance not previously available.
Working Group Subteam 3 (WG8-3) developed two new categories of Best Practices, PSAP and
Consumer. The team began by analyzing the existing Best Practice framework that has been
highly successful for the industry. The basic framework of structure, content, standardized
format was analyzed to determine if it would appropriately apply to both new categories. The
PSAP category was determine to be most closely aligned with industry framework and the
general principles that constitute a “Best Practice”.
The team concluded that the framework and processes were comprehensive for industry Best
Practices, however, modifications were needed as detailed above in Section 3.3.1.3 to adapt to
the new PSAP category.
For the Consumer category, however, the team found that the principles of a Best Practice were
not fully adaptable. It was determined, for example, that although guidance states that a Best
Practice should be “more than a good idea” for this category it was found that this was the case
in many instances. This variation was necessary since many of the Consumer Best Practices
were educational in nature and focused on the general public. In one new Best Practice it
outlines the following good idea:
“9-1-1 Callers should not hang up if they dial 9-1-1 by mistake. This helps to prevent
unnecessary follow-up by the 9-1-1 call center or public safety authorities and allows the caller
Page 18 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
to explain the call was a mistake.”
WG8-3 established that for the Consumer category concessions needed to be made to collect and
preserve the ideas that were applicable to consumers and the general public. WG8-3 also
debated if the new categories should be integrated into the current industry Best Practice set or
be standalone. The analysis focused on what implications would result from combining them
with industry and what level of effort it would take to duplicate the Best Practice websites for
this purpose. It was finally decided that the introduction of these new categories into the current
industry set was not practical and recommendations would be made to provide a unique web
hosting solution for the new categories.
WG8-3 analyzed a series of documents that were collected throughout the process and also
through suggestions conveyed by team members. Items that ultimately became new Best
Practice recommendations were in part based on government documents designed to help public
safety prepare for pandemics, or general guidelines for the operations of a PSAP. Others were
educational documents designed for the public to help understand the proper use of 9-1-1
services. Accordingly there were many best practices and good ideas quoted in these
documents, however, most had little common structure and were adaptable to the recommended
framework being designed.
4.2 Findings
WORKING GROUP SUBTEAM 8-2
WG8-2 completed their work following an initial review of 730 Best Practices. A total of 10
new Best Practices are being recommended by the team. These were mostly due to restructuring
of current Best Practices that were found to have multiple thoughts or concepts contained within
the Best Practice. These recommendations are found in Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices –
Current Best Practices Changed, Recommended New or Recommended Delete and are identified
by a “New” tag in the CSRIC III (New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted) column. These Best
Practices are labeled for identification purposes only as WG8-2-1 through WG8-2-10 and will
require an official Best Practice number following acceptance.
WG8-2 identified 11 Best Practices that were found to be no longer relevant, found to be
duplicates of other Best Practices, or was made obsolete by the modification of another Best
Practice by the team. These recommendations are found in Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices
– Current Best Practices Changed, Recommended New or Recommended Delete and are
identified by a “Delete” tag in the CSRIC III (New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted) column. The
Best Practices being recommended for deletion are 8-7-0413, 8-6-3213, 8-7-0573, 8-7-0632, 8-
7-0633, 8-7-3220, 8-7-3221, 8-7-3222, 8-7-5126, 8-7-5247, and 8-8-0903. The explanation for
the deletion is included in CSRIC III BP Reference/Comments column.
WG8-2 identified 186 Best Practices that required modification, restructuring, or required the
addition of the new implementer class of “Public Safety”. These recommendations are found in
Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices – Current Best Practices Changed, Recommended New or
Recommended Delete and are identified by a “Changed” tag in the CSRIC III
Page 19 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
(New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted) column. Additional comments, notes, and recommended
additions to the Best Practices can be found in the CSRIC III BP Reference/Comments column.
WG8-2 identified 77 Best Practices that did not necessitate direct modification based on their
content and intent. A special notation was developed and is to be included in the Best Practice
remarks section to alert the user that this Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 operations. The
special notation can be found in Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices – Current Best Practices
Changed, Recommended New or Recommended Delete and are identified by an “Unchanged”
tag in the CSRIC III (New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted) column. The special notation “Note:
This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 operations” can be found in the CSRIC III BP
Reference/Comments column.
WORKING GROUP SUBTEAM 8-3
WG8-3 completed their work following the development of two new categories, PSAP Best
Practices and Consumer Best Practices7. A framework was developed for a new set of non-
industry voluntary Best Practices one to provide guidance for Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAP) and the other to provide education and guidance for consumers of 9-1-1 services.
WG8-3 identified recommendations for web hosting the new Best Practices and discussed this
issue with both the FCC and ATIS to determine the level of effort required to develop a unique
and standalone hosting solution.
WG8-3 adapted the industry Best Practice elements to fit the framework developed. The team
addressed the key structure elements of Network Type, Industry Role, Status definitions, Best
Practice categories, and Keywords. These edits can be found in section 3.3.1.3 Elements of Best
Practice Framework found above.
WG8-3 developed a new set of 65 Consumer Best Practices from data sources collected during
the process as well as consulting with experts participating on the team. These new Best
Practice can be found in Appendix 3 – Consumer Best Practices and are identified by a “New
Consumer” tag in the CSRIC III (New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted) column. These Best
Practices are labeled for identification purposes only as WG8-3-1 through WG8-3-65 and will
require an official Best Practice number following acceptance.
WG8-3 developed a new set of 117 PSAP Best Practices from government sources identified
during the process. These new Best Practice can be found in Appendix 4 – PSAP Best Practices
and are identified by a “New PSAP” tag in the CSRIC III (New/Changed/Unchanged/Deleted)
column. These Best Practices are labeled for identification purposes only as WG8-3-66 through
WG8-3-183 and will require an official Best Practice number following acceptance.
WG8-3 determined that the new Best Practice categories should have additional acceptance
entities to provide an alternate means of managing changes to the new Best Practices categories
when a full council vote is not necessary. The team also developed recommendations for the
ongoing support of the new Best Practice categories by expertise already found at the FCC and
7 During the March 14, 2013 CSRIC Council meeting, a council member recommended that
future CSRIC’s undertake work efforts to further develop Best Practices to assist the deaf and
hard of hearing.
Page 20 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
ATIS NRSC.
WG8-3 found that it was important for a recognized governmental entity to publicly endorse and
certify the new of PSAP and Consumer Best Practice categories to ensure they are legitimized as
official sources of Best Practices.
4.3 Recommendations
Communications organizations, Public Safety, PSAPs, and Consumers should evaluate and
implement those Best Practices which they deem appropriate. These organizations should
institutionalize the review of Best Practices as part of their planning processes and assess on a
periodic basis how implementing selected Best Practices might improve the proficiency and
reliability of their operations and understanding of 9-1-1 services.
Two new categories of Best Practices (i) Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and (ii) 9-1-1
Consumer should be established, acknowledged by a recognized government entity, and the
recommended new Best Practices should be accepted by CSRIC III and moved to the next step
of web hosting. The recommended web hosts are the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and/or the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) who are
experienced in Best Practice hosting and both who support this initiative.
Recommend that the two new categories of PSAP and Consumer should be kept separate and
unique from the current set of Best Practices and not be integrated due to the different audiences
and topics and to prevent general confusion that would result from integrating them with the
industry set.
Recommend that the same support structure currently used for industry Best Practices be used
with the exception of changes to the define need and acceptance steps (Figure 5). This includes
future CSRIC charters, FCC generated requests, ATIS NRSC, and appropriate PSAP
stakeholders.
Recommend that two additional acceptance entities be included for the PSAP and Consumer
Best Practices categories in lieu of a full CSRIC Council vote for ongoing routine review
activities. The recommended entities are the FCC and ATIS NRSC both of which are
experienced in Best Practice maintenance and is an ongoing activity at the industry level.
Recommend that upon the successful online implementation of the new categories on the FCC
and/or ATIS Best Practice websites that Public Notices or Press Releases are issued to further
support the establishment of the framework and serve as further endorsement of the process.
Gap Analysis:
Listed below are gaps that were identified during the analysis phase. WG8-2 agreed that the
these gaps have developed primarily due to new services that are in an early stage of
development and implementation in the industry and sufficient Best Practice development
remains difficult until these services have further developed.
1. Hosted Services
Page 21 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
2. Cloud Services
3. Text to E9-1-1 Services
5 Conclusions
Working Group 8 – E9-1-1 Best Practices concludes that providing this enhanced and updated
set of voluntary industry Best Practices that, if implemented, will strengthen the reliability and
resiliency of the 9-1-1 infrastructure for Service Providers, Network Operators, Property
Managers, Public Safety, and Government entities. These Best Practices when used by industry
and public safety will serve to further harden the nation’s 9-1-1 network against outages and
disaster situations.
The Working Group also reasoned that preserving 9-1-1 related documents and their valuable
insights linked to public safety was important and historic. PSAPs will eventually experience
changes in personnel due to turnover, retirements, and new PSAPs. In these instances, incoming
personnel will now have a readily available and current source of Best Practices as a valuable
reference on day one. Consumers, trainers, parents, guardians, employers, etc. will have an
information source that can be accessed instantly and provide expert guidance on the proper use
of 9-1-1 to maximize the safety of consumers and the general public.
Page 22 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
6 Appendix 1 – CSRIC III Council Considerations
The following items are recommended for a CSRIC III Council vote:
CSRIC WG 8
Working Group 8 - Recommendations
Recommendation
Acceptance of this Final report and the recommended changes, new, and
deleted Best Practices contained within Appendices 2-4 below. Approve
Approval of two new categories of Best Practices (i) Public Safety
Answering Point (PSAP) and (ii) 9-1-1 Consumer with associated
Approve
framework under the auspices of CSRIC.
Acknowledgement that the categories of PSAP and Consumer Best
Practices are official sources of Best Practices. Approve
Recommend that web hosting for the new categories be aligned to the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and/or the Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) who are experienced in Approve
Best Practice hosting and both who support this initiative.
Recommend that PSAP and Consumer Best Practices be kept separate and
unique from the current set of industry Best Practices. Approve
Recommend that the same support structure currently used for industry
Best Practices be used for the new PSAP and Consumer categories with the
exception of changes to the define need and acceptance steps outlined in Approve
section 3.3.1.3 and Figure 5.
Recommend that two additional acceptance entities be included for the
PSAP and Consumer Best Practices categories in lieu of a full CSRIC
Council vote for routine review activities. The recommended entities are Approve
the FCC and ATIS NRSC.
Recommend that gaps identified by Working Group 8 be considered for a
future CSRIC charter to provide time for Hosted Services, Cloud Services,
and Text to E9-1-1 Services to develop to a stage where sufficient Best Approve
Practices can be identified.
Page 23 of 1107 Appendix 2 – E9-1-1 Best Practices
CSRIC CSRIC III
III Best CSRIC III Best Practice CSRIC III BP Reference/Comments Best (New/Changed/
Practice Practice Unchanged/
Number Status Deleted)
CURRENT BEST PRACTICES CHANGED, RECOMMENDED NEW OR RECOMMENDED DELETE
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should establish mechanisms in Next Generation 9-1-1 (NG9- Wireline
1-1) applications to handle call congestion and outages
through diversion of calls to alternate Public Safety Industry Role(s): Service Provider; Network
Answering Points (PSAP) that have the capabilities to Operator ; Public Safety
WG8-2-1 New
effectively answer and provide assistance during periods of Critical
extreme overload or network failure scenarios. Keywords(s): Essential Services; Network
Operations; Pandemic; Procedures; Public Safety
Service; Supervision
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should design Emergency Services IP Networks (ESInets) Wireline
with redundant interconnectivity to Online Service Providers
(OSPs) and Public Safety Answering Points (PSAP) to Industry Role(s): Service Provider; Network
maintain connectivity in the face of extensive disaster damage Operator ; Public Safety
WG8-2-2 Critical New
using the characteristics of IP routing to provide assistance in
ensuring 9-1-1 calls will reach a PSAP if there is any path Keywords(s): Essential Services; Network
possible. Operations; Pandemic; Procedures; Public Safety
Service; Supervision
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should have procedures in place to allow for manual Satellite; Wireless; Wireline
configuration in the event of a failure of automatic
synchronization systems. Industry Role(s): Equipment Supplier; Network Highly
Operator; Public Safety Important
WG8-2-3 New
Keywords(s): Information Protection; Network
Operations; Network Provisioning; Procedures;
Software; Supervision; Training and Awareness
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data; Highly
WG8-2-4 New
should consider restricting provisioning technicians from all Satellite; Wireless; Wireline Important
Page 24 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
commands except those that are needed for their work (least
privileges) and avoid any "global" commands or Industry Role(s): Equipment Supplier; Network
unauthenticated, privileged access that may have the potential Operator; Public Safety
for significant impact.
Keywords(s): Information Protection; Network
Operations; Network Provisioning; Procedures;
Software; Supervision; Training and Awareness
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should consider using wireless public or private networks as a Wireline
backup to dedicated trunks for the 9-1-1 network during
periods of network failure. In cases where the ability to Industry Role(s): Service Provider; Network
deliver 9-1-1 calls to the Public Safety Answering Point Operator; Public Safety
(PSAP) through normal routing is interrupted by a failure (not
Highly
WG8-2-5 all trunks busy conditions) consider forwarding the call over Keywords(s): Essential Services; Facilities New
Important
wireless public, private networks, or satellite-based services Transport; Network Design; Network
to provide an additional alternate path to the PSTN, providing Interoperability; Network Operations; Procedures;
IP multimedia connectivity for next generation networks, or Public Safety Service
used solely as an alternate call delivery path for the voice
component of 9-1-1 calls.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should implement testing and verification processes for 9-1-1 Wireless; Wireline
pseudo Automatic Number Identification (pANI) to prevent
bad data from being entered into the wrong routing databases Industry Role(s): Network Operator; Service
Highly
WG8-2-6 typically occurring at the Automatic Location Information Provider; Public Safety New
Important
(ALI) or Selective Router (SR) stage of the provisioning
process. Keywords(s): Network Provisioning; Public
Safety Service
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should establish an assignment accuracy process to send a list Wireless; Wireline
of all applicable Master Street Address Guide (MSAG) ranges
to Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Mobile Positioning Industry Role(s): Network Operator; Service
Highly
WG8-2-7 Center (MPC) operators to ensure pseudo Automatic Number Provider; Public Safety New
Important
Identification (pANI) shell records are built correctly during
original pANI provisioning to reduce negative impact of Keywords(s): Network Provisioning; Public
errors related to data entry. Safety Service
WG8-2-8 Network Operators and Service Providers using IP-based Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data; Highly New
Page 25 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
connection arrangements for routing to a 9-1-1 system Service Satellite; Wireless; Wireline Important
Provider (SSP) or Public Safety agency should ensure those
transport facilities are diverse private facilities or their Industry Role(s): Service Provider; Network
functional equivalent (e.g., generic routing encapsulation Operator; Public Safety
(GRE) tunneling, virtual private network (VPN), or equally
secure industry protocols) and where appropriate and Keywords(s): Network Design; Public Safety
necessary supported by service level agreements. Service
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
Equipment Suppliers should work together to jointly perform Satellite; Wireless; Wireline
cause analysis, and meet periodically with the specific agenda
of sharing the failure and outage information to develop Industry Role(s): Equipment Supplier; Network
Highly
WG8-2-9 corrective measures. Operator; Public Safety New
Important
Keywords(s): Network Elements; Network
Operations
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Network Types(s): Cable; Internet/Data;
should coordinate and perform necessary testing of all new Wireless; Wireline
call paths between their network and the emergency services
network (e.g., Selective Routers, or the Emergency Services Industry Role(s): Service Provider; Network
WG8-2- Highly
IP Network (ESInet)) that includes a test call using all routing Operator; Public Safety New
10 Important
elements.
Keywords(s): Network Provisioning; Public
Safety Service
Maintenance Notification: Network Operators and Service Delete, this is a duplicate of BP 8-7-0403
Providers should communicate information on service
8-7-0413 Delete
affecting maintenance activities and events to their customers,
as appropriate.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Delete, doesn’t solve a problem, highly general
and Public Safety Service and Support providers should work statement with no real guidance. Does not create a
8-6-3213 together to establish reliability and performance objectives in gap by deletion Delete
the field environment.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Delete, this is a duplicate of BP 8-8-0569 and
Authorities, should consider providing local loop diversity to CSRIC III new BP WG8-2-3.
8-7-0573 the PSAP including the use of alternate technologies, (e.g., Delete
wireless, broadband). PSAPs should consider the availability
of diverse local loop connections in the site selection for new
Page 26 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAP facilities.
Network Operators and Service Providers that use soldering Delete, this Best Practice should be sunset based
irons in the provision or maintenance of service should on the issue it refers to and the change in
8-7-0632 periodically review the work processes and safety precautions technology and use of tools. Delete
applicable to safe operations of these work tools.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Delete.
8-7-0633 and Property Managers should prohibit smoking in buildings. Delete
E9-1-1 Selective Router Database (SRDB) Diversity: Delete, this Best Practice replaced by modified
Network Operators and Service Providers that operate E9-1-1 Best Practice 8-7-0571
8-7-3220 Selective Router Databases (SRDBs) should deploy SRDBs Delete
with redundancy and geographic diversity.
Selective Router Database (SRDB) Update Frequency: Delete, this Best Practice replaced by modified
Network Operators and Service Providers that operate E9-1-1 Best Practice 8-7-0571
8-7-3221 Selective Router Databases (SRDBs) should maintain SRDBs Delete
with as current E9-1-1 routing information as is feasible.
E9-1-1 Selective Router (SR) to Public Safety Answering Delete, this Best Practice replaced by modified
Point (PSAP) Trunking Architecture: Network Operators, Best Practice 8-7-0571
Service Providers and Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAPs) should provide, where appropriate, at least one
8-7-3222 Delete
additional trunk between the E9-1-1 Selective Router (SR)
and the PSAP than the switching entity source with the largest
total number of trunks serving that PSAP.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Delete, covered by BP 8-7-5160
Suppliers should plan for contingency staffing to perform
8-7-5126 critical functions in response to crisis situations (e.g., natural Delete
disasters, labor strike, terrorist attack).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Delete, combined this Best Practice with 8-7-5240
and Property Managers should take into account failed
8-7-5247 security systems after an event when determining restoration Delete
priorities.
Public Safety Authorities should be allowed access to Delete, does not meet the definition of a Best
8-8-0903 Delete
Department of Homeland Security—National Geospatial- Practice. Following team review it was
Page 27 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Intelligence Agency (DHS—NGA) data, which can be determined to generally be a “good idea” but does
provided on a monthly basis or as needed. The importance of not address an issue in a proactive way in order to
9-1-1 for Public Safety and for national intelligence should be minimize negative consequences of a particular
emphasized. Common baseline imagery should be used to action.
align GIS maps with streets and Public Safety Authority
jurisdictional boundaries. One way to achieve that goal is to
grant Public Safety Authorities access to federal or military
imagery databases such as DoD–NGA and/or DHS–GMO
(Department of Defense—Geospatial Management Office )
that can be provided monthly or as-needed. This access
should be justified through acknowledgement that 9-1-1 is of
importance for public safety and national intelligence.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should implement procedures that allow for 9-1-1 traffic to be
rerouted to an alternate 9-1-1 answering location such as a
fixed, mobile, or temporary PSAP (automatically, based on
8-5-0570 policy rules or with minimal manual intervention). For Important Changed
example situations where a network condition causes 9-1-1
call delivery to be disrupted or PSAP personnel must be
evacuated for safety reasons.
Network Operators should engineer networks supporting Remarks/Comments section:
VoIP applications to provide redundant and highly available Examples of such services include DNS and other
application layer services. directory services, SIP, H.323, and other
application-level gateways. To ensure Highly
8-6-0762 Changed
interoperability, all implementations of such IP- Important
based application protocols should conform to the
applicable IETF standards for those protocols.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers are encouraged to continue to participate
in the development and expansion of industry standards for
8-6-0803 Important Changed
traffic management that promote interoperability and assist in
meeting end user quality of service needs.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should have documented plans or processes to assess damage
8-6-1017 Critical Changed
to network elements, outside plant, facility infrastructure, etc.
for implementation immediately following a disaster.
Page 28 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should consider the development of a
8-6-1022 vital records program to protect vital records that may be Critical Changed
critical to restoration efforts.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should consider during all hazard and
preplanned events, communicating the response status
frequently and consistently to all appropriate employees Highly
8-6-1038 Changed
detailing what processes have been put in place to support Important
customers and what priorities have been established in the
response.
Public Safety and Government should work with Service Remarks/Comments section:
Providers to educate the public on the proper use of N11 Proper use of all N11 codes, including 9-1-1,
Access codes (e.g., 211, 311, 411 or 511 services) where prevents exhaustion of resources of emergency
Highly
8-6-3204 available, such that it enables the 9-1-1 network and personnel personnel on non-emergency situations. Changed
Important
to be exclusively focused on emergencies.
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should limit access to areas of critical Highly
8-6-5012 Changed
infrastructure to essential personnel. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should perform risk assessment on Highly
8-6-5073 Changed
significant network changes (e.g., technology upgrades). Important
Network Operators and Public Safety should provide Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
appropriate security for emergency mobile units (both pre-
Highly
8-6-5131 and post-deployment) in order to protect against a coordinated Changed
Important
terrorist attack on emergency communications capabilities.
Network Operators and Public Safety should identify primary Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and alternate transportation (e.g., air, rail, highway, boat) for
8-6-5132 Important Changed
emergency mobile units and other equipment and personnel.
Network Operators and Public Safety should minimize Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety Highly
8-6-5133 Changed
availability of information to a need to know basis regarding Important
Page 29 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
locations where emergency mobile units and equipment are
stored.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should ensure adequate physical
protection for facilities/areas that are used to house Highly
8-6-5162 Changed
certificates and/or encryption key management systems, Important
information or operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should establish and implement
procedures for the proper disposal and/or destruction of Highly
8-6-5200 Changed
hardware (e.g., hard drives) that contain sensitive or Important
proprietary information.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Suppliers should consider including cross-subsidiary (e.g. A
LEC and its Wireless Business Unit) resource sharing and
8-6-5228 Important Changed
communications in business continuity plans to support
emergency response and restoration.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should develop
documentation for the restoration of power for areas of critical
infrastructure including such things as contact information, Highly
8-6-5231 Changed
escalation procedures, restoration steps and alternate means of Important
communication. This documentation should be maintained
both on-site and at centralized control centers.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should maintain a complete inventory of elements to ensure
that patches/fixes can be properly applied across the
8-6-8037 Important Changed
organization. This inventory should be updated each time a
patch/fix is identified and action is taken.
For Network Operators and Service Providers, a formal Remarks/Comments section:
process during system or service development should exist in This review should be based on an organization's
Highly
8-6-8038 which a review of security controls and techniques is policies, standards, and guidelines, as well as best Changed
Important
performed by a group independent of the development group, practices. In instances where exceptions are noted,
prior to deployment. mitigation techniques should be designed and
Page 30 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
deployed and exceptions should be properly
tracked.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should establish measurements to monitor their network Highly
8-7-0400 Changed
performance. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should monitor their network to enable quick response to
8-7-0401 Critical Changed
network issues.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should, where appropriate, design networks (e.g., Time
8-7-0402 Division Multiplexing (TDM) or Internet Protocol (IP)) to Critical Changed
minimize the impact of a single point of failure (SPOF).
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should communicate maintenance windows to appropriate
8-7-0403 Important Changed
entities so proper methods of procedures can be invoked.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should periodically examine and review their networks to Highly
8-7-0405 Changed
ensure that they meet the current design specifications. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should, where appropriate, establish a process to ensure that
spares inventory is kept current to at least a minimum Highly
8-7-0406 Changed
acceptable release (e.g., hardware, firmware or software Important
version).
Network Operators, Services Providers, and Public Safety to Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
enhance security, should, by default, disable ICMP (Internet
8-7-0412 Control Message Protocol) redirect messages and IP source Important Changed
routing.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should establish plans for internal communications regarding
Highly
8-7-0414 maintenance activities and events that impact customers. Changed
Important
Page 31 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should test the restoral process associated with critical data The goal is to demonstrate that data restoration is
back-up, as appropriate. complete and works as expected Highly
8-7-0415 Changed
Important
. Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should design and implement procedures for traffic
Highly
8-7-0416 monitoring, trending and forecasting so that capacity Changed
Important
management issues may be addressed.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should design and implement procedures to evaluate failure
8-7-0417 Critical Changed
and emergency conditions affecting network capacity.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should collect failure-related data to perform cause analysis, Highly
8-7-0422 Changed
impact and criticality analysis and failure trending. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should maintain software version deployment records, as Highly
8-7-0425 Changed
appropriate. Important
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should monitor software and hardware vulnerability reports
and take the recommended action(s) to address problems,
Highly
8-7-0428 where appropriate. Reports and recommendations are Changed
Important
typically provided by equipment suppliers and Computer
Emergency Response Teams (CERTs).
Service Providers and Public Safety should consider Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
measuring end-to-end path performance and path validity for Highly
8-7-0442 Changed
both active and alternate routes. Important
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider conducting physical site audits after a major
event (e.g., weather, earthquake, auto wreck) to ensure the
8-7-0476 Critical Changed
physical integrity and orientation of hardware has not been
compromised.
Page 32 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety, in Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
order to facilitate asset management and increase the
likelihood of having usable spares in emergency restorations,
should consider maintaining "hot spares" (e.g., circuit packs Highly
8-7-0504 Changed
electronically plugged in and interfacing with any element Important
management system) as opposed to being stored in a cabinet
for mission critical elements.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should have procedures in place to process court orders and Highly
8-7-0505 Changed
subpoenas for wire taps or other information. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should, by design and practice, manage
critical Network Elements (e.g., Domain Name Servers,
8-7-0510 Signaling Servers, Gateway Servers) that are essential for Critical Changed
network connectivity and subscriber service as critical
systems (e.g., secure, redundant, alternative routing).
Network Operators and Service Providers should maintain a Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
24x7x365 contact list of other providers and operators for
Highly
8-7-0513 service restoration of inter-connected networks and as Changed
Important
appropriate share with Public Safety and Support providers.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should participate in interoperability
Highly
8-7-0530 testing (including services), as appropriate, to maintain Changed
Important
reliability across connected networks.
Network Operators and Public Safety should periodically Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
audit the physical and logical diversity called for by network
Highly
8-7-0532 design of their network segment(s) and take appropriate Changed
Important
measures as needed.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should store multiple software versions
Highly
8-7-0541 for critical network elements and be able to fallback to earlier Changed
Important
versions.
Page 33 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should implement procedures to ensure synchronization and Highly
8-7-0550 Changed
security of databases. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider placing and maintaining 9-1-1 TDM or IP
based networks over diverse interoffice transport facilities
(e.g., geographically diverse facility routes, automatically
8-7-0566 Critical Changed
invoked standby routing, diverse digital cross-connect system
services, self-healing fiber ring topologies, or any
combination thereof).
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should establish a routing plan so that in the case of lost
connectivity or disaster impact affecting a Public Safety
8-7-0568 Critical Changed
Answering Point (PSAP), 9-1-1 calls are routed to an alternate
PSAP answering point.
Network Operators and Public Safety should consider Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
deploying dual active 9-1-1 selective routing architectures to
enable circuits from the serving end office to be split between
two selective routers or Emergency Service Routing Proxies
8-7-0571 Critical Changed
(ESRP) in order to eliminate single points of failure (SPOF)
taking diversity between Selective Routers (SR) or ESRP and
PSAP into consideration.
Network Operators and Service Providers should minimize Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
impact from pre-planned high volume call events by invoking
Highly
8-7-0576 network management and congestion controls for affected end Changed
Important
offices to maximize 9-1-1 call throughput.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
responsible for Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)
operations should jointly and periodically test and verify that
8-7-0577 Critical Changed
critical components (e.g., automatic re-routes, PSAP Make
Busy keys) included in contingency plans work as designed.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Highly
8-7-0578 should actively engage in public education efforts aimed at Changed
Important
informing the public of the capabilities and proper use of 9-1-
Page 34 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
1.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should routinely team to develop, implement, test, evaluate
and update, as needed, plans for managing 9-1-1 disruptions
8-7-0579 Critical Changed
(e.g., share information about network and system security
and reliability where appropriate).
Network Operators and Public Safety Authorities should Remarks/Comments section:
apply redundancy and diversity where feasible, to all network Security practices and concepts should be applied
links considered vital to a community's ability to respond to to the critical systems supporting Link
8-7-0580 emergencies. Redundancy and Diversity. Critical Changed
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators and Service Providers should include Modifications: Acronyms defined and added
Automatic Location Identification (ALI) data for both additional clarity.
traditional and alternate providers (e.g., Private Switch,
8-7-0581 Critical Changed
Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC), Voice over
Internet Protocol (VoIP)) in the ALI systems, where required.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should establish policies and procedures that outline how
critical network element databases will be backed up onto a Highly
8-7-0603 Changed
storage medium (e.g., tapes, optical diskettes) on a scheduled Important
basis.
Network Operators and Service Providers should design and Remarks/Comments section:
implement procedures to evaluate failure and emergency Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 Highly
8-7-0616 Changed
conditions affecting network capacity. operations. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety Providers should coordinate with fire
Highly
8-7-0619 agencies in emergency response preplanning efforts for Changed
Important
communications equipment locations.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
and Public Safety should use approved industry standards for Example ANSI T1.311-1998 Highly
8-7-0622 Changed
Telecommunications Environmental Protection, DC Power Important
Systems for key equipment locations (e.g., routers, central Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Page 35 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
office switches, and other critical network elements) to reduce
fires associated with DC power equipment.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should ensure that AC surge protection is
8-7-0635 provided at the power service entrance to minimize the effects Important Changed
caused by lightning or extremely high voltages.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should use over-current protection devices
8-7-0644 Critical Changed
and fusing.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should coordinate hurricane and other
8-7-0655 disaster restoration work with electrical and other utilities as Critical Changed
appropriate.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should design standby generator systems
8-7-0657 for fully automatic operation and for ease of manual Critical Changed
operation, when required.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should ensure generator life support
systems (e.g., radiator fan, oil cooler fan, water transfer
8-7-0658 pumps, fuel pumps, engine start battery chargers) are on the Critical Changed
essential Alternating Current (AC) buss of the generator they
serve.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should have a plan that is periodically
Highly
8-7-0660 verified for providing portable generators to offices with and Changed
Important
without stationary engines.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should exercise power generators on a
routine schedule in accordance with manufacturer's
8-7-0662 Critical Changed
specifications. For example, a monthly 1 hour engine run on
load, and a 5 hour annual run.
Page 36 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers and Public Safety should clearly label the
8-7-0668 Important Changed
equipment served by each circuit breaker and fuse.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should develop and/or provide appropriate Highly
8-7-0669 Changed
emergency procedures for Alternating Current (AC) transfer. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should design and implement a preventive Highly
8-7-0671 Changed
maintenance and inspection program for electrical systems. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should provide a separate "battery discharge" alarm for all
critical infrastructure facilities, and where feasible,
8-7-0689 Important Changed
periodically (e.g., every 15 minutes) repeat the alarm as long
as the condition exists.
Network Operators, Property Managers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider providing power alarm redundancy so that no
8-7-0690 single point alarm system failure will lead to a network power Important Changed
outage.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should develop and test plans to address
situations where normal power backup does not work (e.g., Highly
8-7-0695 Changed
commercial AC power fails, the standby generator fails to Important
start, automatic transfer switch fails).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Remarks/Comments section:
and Public Safety should employ an "Ask Yourself" program This initiative is intended to reinforce the
as part of core training and daily operations. responsibility every employee has to ensure
8-7-0697 flawless network service. Important Changed
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers and Public Safety should design standby Highly
8-7-0699 Changed
systems (e.g., power) to withstand harsh environmental Important
conditions.
Page 37 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should provide security for portable Highly
8-7-0701 Changed
generators. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should, upon restoration of service in the case of an outage
where 9-1-1 call completion is affected, make/request
8-7-0758 Critical Changed
multiple test calls to the affected PSAP(s) to ensure proper
completion.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should maintain records that accurately track the diversity of
8-7-0760 internal wiring for office synchronization, including timing Critical Changed
leads and power.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should perform annual capacity evaluation
Highly
8-7-0773 of power equipment, and perform periodic scheduled Changed
Important
maintenance, including power alarm testing.
Network Operators, Service Providers , Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should provide warning signs to indicate
8-7-0774 precautions to be taken when powering on circuits that require Important Changed
special procedures
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider including coordination information of each
8-7-0780 other when developing disaster restoration and prioritization Critical Changed
plans.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers, and Public Safety should formally
document their business continuity processes in a business
continuity plan covering critical business functions and
8-7-1001 business partnerships. Key areas for consideration include: Critical Changed
Plan Scope, Responsibility, Risk Assessment, Business
Impact Analysis, Plan Testing, Training and Plan
Maintenance.
Page 38 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers, and Public Safety should review their
Business Continuity Plan(s) on an annual basis to ensure that Highly
8-7-1004 Changed
plans are up-to-date, relevant to current objectives of the Important
business and can be executed as written.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should perform a Business Impact Analysis
8-7-1005 (BIA) to assess the impact of the loss of critical operations, Critical Changed
support systems and applications.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should regularly conduct exercises that test
their Disaster Recovery Plans. Exercise scenarios should Highly
8-7-1009 Changed
include natural and man-made disasters (e.g., hurricane, flood, Important
nuclear, biological, and chemical).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should designate personnel responsible for
8-7-1010 maintaining Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Critical Changed
Plans.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should establish alternative methods of
8-7-1011 Critical Changed
communication for critical personnel.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should make available to the disaster recovery team "as-built"
8-7-1015 Important Changed
drawings of network sites.
Network Operators, Service Providers ,Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should emphasize employee and public Highly
8-7-1018 Changed
safety during a disaster and all phases of disaster recovery Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should assess the need for Chemical,
Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) response Highly
8-7-1020 Changed
program to safely restore or maintain service in the aftermath Important
of fuel/chemical contamination or a Weapons of Mass
Destruction (WMD) attack.
Page 39 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should identify essential staff within
their organizations that are critical to disaster recovery efforts.
8-7-1023 Critical Changed
Planning should address the availability of these individuals
and provide for backup staff.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should plan for the possibility of a
8-7-1024 Important Changed
disaster occurring during a work stoppage.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider creating a policy statement that defines a
8-7-1026 remote system access strategy, which may include a special Important Changed
process for disaster recovery.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should engage in preventative
maintenance programs for network site support systems
8-7-1028 including emergency power generators, UPS, DC plant Critical Changed
(including batteries), HVAC units, and fire suppression
systems.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should periodically review their portable power generator
8-7-1029 Important Changed
needs to address changes to the business.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider entering into Mutual Aid agreements with
partners best able to assist them in a disaster situation using
Highly
8-7-1031 the templates provided on the NRIC and NCS websites. Changed
Important
These efforts could include provisions to share spectrum,
fiber facilities, switching, and/or technician resources.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should document their critical equipment suppliers, vendors,
contractors and business partners in their Business Continuity Highly
8-7-1032 Changed
Plans along with an assessment of the services, support, and Important
capabilities available in the event of a disaster.
Page 40 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators and Public Safety should ensure that the Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
emergency mobile assets are maintained at a hardware and
software level compatible with the existing network
8-7-1034 Critical Changed
infrastructure so that the emergency mobile assets will be
immediately available for deployment.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should include trial deployment of emergency mobile assets
8-7-1035 in disaster response exercises to evaluate level of personnel Important Changed
readiness.
Network Operators, Public Safety, Service Providers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers and Public Safety Authorities should use
a disaster recovery support model that provides a clear Highly
8-7-1037 Changed
escalation path to executive levels, both internally and to Important
business partners.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should work collectively with local,
state, and federal governments to develop relationships Highly
8-7-1058 Changed
fostering efficient communications, coordination and support Important
for emergency response and restoration.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should set Initial Address Messages (IAMs) to congestion
priority in accordance with applicable ANSI standards. This
will ensure government emergency calls (e.g., 9-1-1, GETS)
8-7-1063 Critical Changed
receive proper priority during national emergency situations.
Implementation in all networks should be in accordance with
ANSI T1.111.
Network Operators, Public Safety, Service Providers and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should consider, in preparation for
predicted natural events, placing standby generators on line Highly
8-7-1067 Changed
and verifying proper operation of all subsystems (e.g., ice, Important
snow, flood, hurricanes).
The Service Provider and the Public Safety Agency or its Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
8-7-3202 agent that utilize Public Safety mass calling systems for Important Changed
emergency notification should have a pre-established
Page 41 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
procedure to notify all impacted network operators, prior to
launching an alert event.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
organizations should consider participating in standards
8-7-3205 bodies and other forums contributing to Emergency Important Changed
Telecommunications Services (ETS).
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should develop and maintain operations plans that address
network reliability issues. Network Operators and Service
Highly
8-7-3211 Providers should proactively include Public Safety authorities Changed
Important
when developing network reliability plans in support of 9-1-1
services.
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
including notification of Public Safety Authorities, as
8-7-3212 Important Changed
appropriate, in their trouble notification plans.
Public Safety Answering Points should avoid deploying an Modifications: Removed tagline and minor
automatic ALI rebid function for wireless E9-1-1 calls. grammatical corrections.
However, where deemed necessary, an automatic ALI rebid
8-7-3214 Important Changed
function should only be deployed for the initial bid to retrieve
the Phase II location.
For Network Operators that operate Mobile Switching Modifications: Removed tagline.
Centers (“MSCs”), the MSC should default route 9-1-1 calls
based on cell sector/tower location to the proper serving
8-7-3215 Important Changed
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) when necessary and
where feasible.
For Network Operators that cannot default route 9-1-1 calls Modifications: Removed tagline.
based on cell sector/tower location, switch level defaulted
8-7-3216 calls should be routed to a “fast busy” tone or to an Important Changed
appropriate recorded announcement.
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide and Modifications: Removed tagline.
maintain current 24/7/365 contact information accessible to
8-7-3217 Important Changed
Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) so that PSAPs may
obtain additional subscriber information as appropriate.
Page 42 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Public Safety should provide Training to educate PSAP Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
8-7-3218 personnel as to the process to obtain E9-1-1 Phase II data. Important Changed
Public Safety should provide training to educate PSAP Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
personnel as to the proper meaning and interpretation of the
8-7-3219 Important Changed
E9-1-1 Phase II display parameters.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Remarks/Comments section:
should implement dedicated trunk groups between the Mobile This should be done rather than aggregating traffic
Switching Center (MSC) end office or similar source and the from centralized switching architectures serving
E9-1-1 Selective Router (SR), based on the geography served wide spread geographic areas onto a single trunk
by the default Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs). group to the E9-1-1 Selective Router. This should
Highly
8-7-3223 be done in conjunction with the local PSAP Changed
Important
jurisdictional authorities to ensure that correct
choices are made.
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers that Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
deploy geographically diverse 9-1-1 Mobile Positioning
Centers (MPC) with dual load sharing nodes should ensure
Highly
8-7-3225 that the utilization on either node is less than half of each Changed
Important
node's capacity so that if one node fails the other node will
absorb the load.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
operating Mobile Positioning Centers (MPC) should provide
8-7-3226 Critical Changed
24x7 network operations support.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should deploy location solutions such
that the E9-1-1 related data traffic between the Position
Highly
8-7-3227 Determining Entity (PDE) and the mobile subscriber Changed
Important
associated with location determination should not interfere
with the voice traffic, when feasible.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Highly
8-7-3228 Equipment Suppliers that use Global Positioning System Changed
Important
(GPS) enabled Phase II location solutions should ensure that
Page 43 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
the GPS satellite location information (e.g., GPS ephemeris,
almanac, etc.) is as current as is feasible to assist the handset
in providing improved accuracy of the GPS fix, aiding in the
reduction of the time of database responses and reduction of
the number of database query rebids.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers that Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
operate Mobile Positioning Centers (MPC)/ Gateway Mobile
Location Centers (GMLC) should maintain local storage of
8-7-3229 record logs for a minimum of 7 days showing incoming Important Changed
successful requests from Emergency Services Message Entity
(ESME) and outgoing responses to ESME.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers that Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
produce location event records that include time-stamped call
8-7-3230 detail transactions should store these records for a minimum Important Changed
of 3 days.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers that Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
use Global Positioning System (GPS) enabled Phase II
location solutions should ensure that the GPS satellite location
identification information (e.g., GPS ephemeris, almanac,
Highly
8-7-3231 etc.) is transmitted to the Phase II Mobile Subscriber or Changed
Important
Position Determining Entities (PDE) as soon as is feasible
after the E9-1-1 call commences in order to reduce the
number of database query rebids.
Service Providers and Public Safety deploying wireless Phase Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
II should work to ensure that Phase II accuracy is optimized
8-7-3233 and the performance trouble resolution process is followed as Important Changed
needed.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers, when feasible, should provide multiple
8-7-5113 cable entry points at critical facilities (e.g., copper or fiber Critical Changed
conduit) avoiding single points of failure (SPOF).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
8-7-5127 and Public Safety should provide a Government Emergency Critical Changed
Telecommunications Service (GETS) card to essential staff
Page 44 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
critical to disaster recovery efforts and should consider
utilizing Wireless Priority Service (WPS) for essential staff.
Appropriate training and testing in the use of GETS & WPS
should occur on a regular basis (i.e. in conjunction with
testing of the corporate disaster recovery plan).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should maintain accurate records for
Government Emergency Telecommunications Service
8-7-5128 Critical Changed
(GETS) cards and Wireless Priority Service (WPS) phone
assignments as staff changes occur.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers and the Government should conduct
public and media relations in such a way as to avoid
8-7-5130 Important Changed
disclosing specific network or equipment vulnerabilities that
could be exercised by a terrorist.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should consider establishing procedures
Highly
8-7-5139 for managing personnel who perform functions at disaster Changed
Important
area sites.
Public Safety, Network Operators, Service Providers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers and Property Managers should have
Highly
8-7-5160 contingency plans in place for the possible absence of critical Changed
Important
personnel in their business continuity plan.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should establish a proprietary
information protection policy to protect proprietary
information in their possession belonging to the company,
business partners and customers from inadvertent, improper
8-7-5175 Important Changed
or unlawful disclosure. The policy should establish
procedures for the classification and marking of information;
storage, handling, transfer and transmission of information,
retention guidelines and disposal/deletion of information.
Network Operators, Public Safety and Service Providers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
8-7-5196 Critical Changed
should ensure that contractors and Equipment Supplier
Page 45 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
personnel working in critical network facilities follow the
current applicable MOP (Method of Procedures), which
should document the level of oversight necessary.
Service Providers, Network Operators, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should ensure availability of
emergency/backup power (e.g., batteries, generators, fuel
cells) to maintain critical communications services during
8-7-5204 times of commercial power failures, including natural and Critical Changed
manmade occurrences (e.g., earthquakes, floods, fires, power
brown/black outs, terrorism). The emergency/backup power
generators should be located onsite, when appropriate.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should maintain sufficient fuel supplies
8-7-5206 for emergency/backup power generators running at full load Critical Changed
and ensure contracted refueling is in place.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should take appropriate precautions to
ensure that fuel supplies and alternate sources of power are
available for critical installations in the event of major
8-7-5207 disruptions in a geographic area (e.g., hurricane, earthquake, Critical Changed
pipeline disruption). Consider contingency contracts in
advance with clear terms and conditions (e.g., Delivery time
commitments, T&Cs).
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Public Safety and Property Managers should ensure that
8-7-5208 electrical work (e.g., AC and high current DC power Important Changed
distribution) is performed by licensed technicians.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should establish a technical support plan
Highly
8-7-5223 that prevents the loss of one facility or location from disabling Changed
Important
their ability to provide support.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
8-7-5225 Public Safety and Property Managers should ensure that Important Changed
Business Continuity Plan(s) are restricted to those with a
Page 46 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
need-to-know.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Remarks/Comments section:
Pubic Safety and Property Managers should perform after- http://www.nric.org/meetings/docs/meeting_20041
action reviews of emergency response and restoration of 206/NRICVII_FG2B_December2004_BPs_Appen
major events to capture lessons learned (e.g., early warning dices.pdf
signs) and to enhance emergency response and restoration
plans accordingly. A process similar to NRIC VII, Focus Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety Highly
8-7-5227 Changed
Group 2B Report Appendices Appendix Z “Recovery Important
Incident Response (IR) Post Mortem Checklist” can be used
to capture and identify countermeasures to prevent or mitigate
the impact of future incidents and to quickly and effectively
restore service from such events in the future.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should test fuel reserves used for standby
or backup power for contamination at least once a year or
8-7-5232 after any event (e.g., earth tremor, flood) that could Critical Changed
compromise the integrity of the tank housing, fill pipe or
supply pipe.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers should provide or arrange for security to
8-7-5234 protect temporary equipment placements and staging areas for Important Changed
critical infrastructure equipment in a disaster area.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should verify the integrity of system
spares and replenish spares, as appropriate, as part of a Highly
8-7-5237 Changed
disaster response and at the conclusion of a disaster response Important
at a facility.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Pubic Safety and Property Managers should have a plan for
responding to malfunctioning access control equipment to Highly
8-7-5240 Changed
include determining restoration priorities for failed security Important
systems after an event.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety Highly
8-7-5241 Changed
Equipment Suppliers should consider placing access and Important
Page 47 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
facility alarm points to critical or sensitive areas on backup
power.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should define and assign responsibility
for retrieval of all corporate assets (e.g., access cards,
8-7-5258 equipment) and ensure temporary physical and logical access Important Changed
is removed after completion of a restoration effort for all
temporary personnel associated with the restoration.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Pubic Safety and Property Managers should establish and
enforce access control and identification procedures for all
individuals (including temporary contractors, and mutual aid
Highly
8-7-5259 workers) at restoration sites for which they have Changed
Important
responsibility. Provide for issuing and proper displaying of
ID badges and the sign-in and escorting procedures, where
appropriate.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Pubic Safety and Property Managers should provide any
8-7-5260 significant changes to access control procedures to affected Important Changed
personnel involved in a restoration.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Pubic Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Property Managers with buildings serviced by more than one
emergency generator, should design, install and maintain each
Highly
8-7-5281 generator as a standalone unit that is not dependent on the Changed
Important
operation of another generator for proper functioning,
including fuel supply path.
For Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers, all Operations, Administration,
Maintenance, and Provisioning (OAM&P) applications,
systems, and interfaces should use session timers to
8-7-8030 disconnect, terminate, or logout authenticated sessions that Important Changed
remain inactive past some preset (but ideally configurable by
the Administrator) time limit that is appropriate for
operational efficiency and security.
Page 48 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should establish a process for releasing
information to members of the law enforcement and
8-7-8065 Critical Changed
intelligence communities and identify a single Point of
Contact (POC) for coordination/referral activities.
Authentication databases/files used by Network Operators, Remarks/Comments section:
Service Providers, Public Safety, and Equipment Suppliers Filter access to the TCP and/or UDP ports serving
must be protected from unauthorized access, and must be the database at the network border. Use strong
backed-up and securely stored in case they need to be authentication for those requiring access. Prevent
restored. users from viewing directory and file names that
they are not authorized to access. Enforce a
Highly
8-7-8083 policy of least privilege. Build a backup system in Changed
Important
the event of loss of the primary system. Document
and test procedures for backup and restoral of the
directory.
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers based on the principles of least–
privilege (the minimum access needed to perform the job) and
8-7-8086 separation of duties (certain users perform certain tasks) Critical Changed
should develop capabilities and processes to determine which
users require access to a specific device or application.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should conduct regular audits of their Highly
8-7-8121 Changed
Information Security practices. Important
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Business Continuity and Recovery Plans should factor in
8-7-8131 potential Information Security threats of a plausible likelihood Important Changed
or significant business impact.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should upon an occurrence of
Highly
8-7-8510 compromise or trust violations conduct a forensic analysis to Changed
Important
determine the extent of compromise, revoke compromised
keys, and establish new crypto keys as soon as possible, and
Page 49 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
review crypto procedures to re-establish trust.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should spread 9-1-1 and Next Generation 9-1-1 access This service provider equipment identification
connections across similar equipment to avoid single points of applies to E9-1-1 and may apply to some elements
8-8-0567 failure and clearly mark plug-in level components and of NG9-1-1. Important Changed
termination points as critical essential services that are to be
treated with a high level of care. Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should consider using the Public Switch Telephone Network This best practice does not propose that any 9-1-1
(PSTN) as a backup to dedicated trunks for the 9-1-1 network call delivery stakeholder bypass acceptable
during periods of network failure. In cases where the ability congestion control techniques commonly applied
to deliver 9-1-1 calls to the Public Safety Answering Point within the industry for 9-1-1 calls.
(PSAP) through normal routing is interrupted by a failure (not Highly
8-8-0569 Changed
all trunks busy conditions) consider forwarding the call over Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety Important
the PSTN to a telephone number specified and answered by
Public Safety authorities. It is desirable for that specified
telephone number to be a type that can provide the original
Caller ID/Automatic Number Identification (ANI).
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should actively monitor and manage the 9-1-1 network
components using network management controls, where
available, to quickly restore 9-1-1 service and provide priority
8-8-0574 repair during network failure events. When multiple Critical Changed
interconnecting providers and vendors are involved, they will
need to cooperate to provide end-to-end analysis of complex
call-handling problems.
Network Operators, Service providers, and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should deploy location identification systems used by Public These include, but are not limited to, ALI,
Safety in a redundant, geographically diverse manner (i.e., MPC/GMLC, VPC systems, and LIS.
two identical ALI/Mobile Positioning Center (MPC) Gateway
8-8-0575 Critical Changed
Mobile Location Center (GMLC)/VPC/LIS database systems Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
with mirrored data located in geographically diverse
locations).
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety Highly
8-8-0599 Changed
should conduct exercises periodically to test a network's Important
Page 50 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
operational readiness for various types of events (e.g.,
hurricane, flood, nuclear, biological, and chemical), through
planned, simulated exercises being as authentic as practical
including scripts prepared in advance with team members
playing their roles as realistically as possible.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Property Managers, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should initiate or continue a modernization
program to ensure that outdated power equipment is phased
out of plant considering capabilities of smart controllers, local
8-8-0674 Important Changed
and remote monitoring and control, alarm systems when
updating power equipment, and being integrated into
engineering and operational strategies.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider allowing Equipment Suppliers or third party
8-8-0786 Service Providers remote secured access to vital hardware Critical Changed
components.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should consider creating a workforce
8-8-0797 augmentation plan prior to a pandemic or other crisis Important Changed
situation.
Network Operators and Service Providers operating a Virtual Remarks/Comments section:
Private Cloud (VPC), Mobile Positioning Center (MPC), or See Testing in Section 5.1.4 of NENA 56-504
Gateway Mobile Location Center (GMLC) should strive to “NENA VoIP 9-1-1 Deployment and Operational
reduce bad shell record data routing errors for 9-1-1 pseudo Guidelines”.
Automatic Number Identification (pANI) due to incorrect
Master Street Address Guide (MSAG) to Emergency Service Highly
8-8-0900 Changed
Number (ESN) to Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) Important
relationship (MSAG-ESN-PSAP) by following National
Emergency Number Association (NENA) 56-504 “NENA
VoIP 9-1-1 Deployment and Operational Guidelines” to fully
test routing for every pANI placed in service.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should use dedicated Signaling System 7 (SS7) or Multi- Highly
8-8-3224 Changed
Frequency (MF) controlled trunk groups for the normal Important
routing of 9-1-1 calls from originating switching entities to 9-
Page 51 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
1-1 Selective Routers (SRs) rather than using shared Public
Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) trunk arrangements and
where appropriate and necessary supported by service level
agreements.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should implement architectures that partition or segment
networks and applications using means such as firewalls,
demilitarized zones (DMZ), or virtual private networks (VPN)
so that contamination or damage to one asset does not disrupt
8-8-8008 or destroy other assets. In particular, where feasible, it is Critical Changed
suggested user traffic networks, network management
infrastructure networks, customer transaction system
networks, and enterprise communication/business operations
networks be separated and partitioned from one another.
Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should include steps to appropriately test all patches/fixes in a
8-8-8035 test environment prior to distribution into the production Important Changed
environment in their patch/fix policy and process guidelines.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should perform a verification process to ensure that
patches/fixes are actually applied as directed throughout the
8-8-8039 Critical Changed
organization. Exceptions should be reviewed and the proper
patches/fixes actually applied.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should establish a set of standards and procedures for dealing http://www.nric.org/meetings/docs/meeting_20041
with computer security events that should be part of the 206/NRICVII_FG2B_December2004_BPs_Appen
overall business continuity/disaster recovery plan, exercised dices.pdf
8-8-8061 periodically and revised as needed, and cover likely threats to Critical Changed
those elements of the infrastructure which are critical to Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
service delivery/business continuity. See Appendix X and Y
of the NRIC VII, Focus Group 2B Report Appendices.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should generate and collect security-related event data for
8-8-8064 Critical Changed
critical systems (i.e., syslogs, firewall logs, IDS alerts, remote
access logs, etc.). Where practical, this data should be
Page 52 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
transmitted to secure collectors for storage and should be
retained in accordance with a data retention policy. A
mechanism should be enabled on these systems to ensure
accurate timestamps of this data (e.g., Network Time
Protocol).
Service Providers, Network Operators, Public Safety, and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Equipment Suppliers should develop and practice a
communications plan as part of the broader Incident response
plan identifying key players to include as many of the
following items as appropriate: contact names, business
telephone numbers, home telephone numbers, pager numbers,
fax numbers, cell phone numbers, home addresses, internet
8-8-8068 addresses, permanent bridge numbers, etc. Notification plans Critical Changed
should be developed prior to an event/incident happening
where necessary. The plan should also include alternate
communications channels (e.g., alpha pagers, internet,
satellite phones, VOIP, private lines, smart phones) balancing
the value of any alternate method against the security and
information loss risks introduced.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should deploy Intrusion Detection/Prevention Tools
(IDS/IPS) with an initial policy that reflects the universe of
devices and services known to exist on the monitored
8-8-8073 Critical Changed
network. Due to the ever evolving nature of threats, IDS/IPS
tools should be tested regularly and tuned to deliver optimum
performance and reduce 0 positives.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should deploy malware protection tools where feasible,
8-8-8103 establish processes to keep signatures current, and establish Critical Changed
procedures for reacting to an infection.
Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should deploy tools to detect unexpected changes to file
systems on Network Elements and Management Infrastructure
8-8-8136 Important Changed
systems where feasible and establish procedures for reacting
to changes. Use techniques such as cryptographic hashes.
Page 53 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should review and analyze security-related event data
produced by critical systems on a regular basis to identify
Highly
8-8-8139 potential security risks and issues. Automated tools and Changed
Important
scripts can aid in this analysis process and significantly
reduce the level of effort required to perform this review.
When a compromise occurs, or new exploits are discovered, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Safety
should perform an audit of available network services to
8-8-8502 reassess any vulnerability to attack and re-evaluate the Critical Changed
business need to provide that service, or explore alternate
means of providing the same capability.
Following a compromise and reestablishment of lost service, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Safety
should re-evaluate the architecture for single points of failure.
Highly
8-8-8506 Review the process of evaluating and documenting single Changed
Important
points of failure and provide spares for redundancy in the
architecture to ensure adequacy of the security architecture.
Immediately following incident recovery, Service Providers, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators, and Public Safety should re-evaluate the Ensure any changes are adequately documented to
adequacy of existing security architecture and implement reflect the current configuration. Review existing
revisions as needed. processes for establishing and maintaining security
8-8-8508 architectures update as necessary to maintain Important Changed
currency.
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Upon discovery of an unsanctioned device on the Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
organizational network, Service Providers, Network
Operators, and Public Safety should investigate to determine
ownership and purpose/use of the device. Where possible, this
phase should be non-alerting (i.e., log reviews, monitoring of
8-8-8522 Important Changed
network traffic, review of abuse complaints for suspect IP
address) to determine if the use is non-malicious or
malicious/suspect. If use is determined to be non-malicious,
employ available administrative tools to correct behavior and
educate user. Conduct review of policies to determine:
Page 54 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
1. If additional staff education regarding acceptable use
of network/computing resources is required
2. If processes should be redesigned / additional assets
allocated to provide a sanctioned replacement of the
capability. Was the user attempting to overcome the
absence of a legitimate and necessary service the
organization was not currently providing so that s/he
could perform their job?
If the use is deemed malicious/suspect, coordinate with legal
counsel:
1. Based on counsel's advice, consider collecting
additional data for the purposes of assessing
2. Depending on the scope of the misuse, consider a
referral to law enforcement.
Insomuch as is possible without disrupting operational Remarks/Comments section:
recovery, Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Example evidence handling processes are provided
Safety should handle and collect information as part of a in Appendix X, Section 2f of the NRIC VII, Focus
8-8-8554 computer security investigation in accordance with a set of Group 2B Report Appendices. Critical Changed
generally accepted evidence-handling procedures.
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
After responding to a security incident or service outage, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Service Providers, Network Operators and Public Safety
should follow processes similar to those outlined in Appendix
8-8-8564 Critical Changed
X of the NRIC VII, Focus Group 2B Report Appendices to
capture lessons learned and prevent future events.
Equipment Suppliers, Service Providers, Network Operators, Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should have processes in place to ensure
that all third party software (e.g. operating system) have been
8-8-8629 Important Changed
properly patched with the latest security patches and that the
system works correctly with those patches installed.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Public Safety Remarks/Comments section:
should implement industry guidelines for validating physical Processes and procedures should exist for tracking
diversity, and consider performing signaling link discrepancies and maintaining a historical record.
8-8-8727 Important Changed
diversification validation on a scheduled basis (e.g., twice a Re: PBX & statewide networks - sonic ring could
year). be influenced by this.
Page 55 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
Service providers, Network Operators, Equipment Vendors Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should test new devices to identify
unnecessary services, outdated software versions, missing
8-8-8748 patches, and misconfigurations, and validate compliance with Critical Changed
or deviations from an organization’s security policy prior to
being placed on a network.
Service Providers, Network Operators, Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should utilize automated (where possible)
Patch Management to quickly deploy patches for known
8-8-8755 Important Changed
vulnerabilities. PSAP software version control is important
for backroom PSAP systems
Network Operators and Public Safety should establish and Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
implement procedures to ensure that all security patches and
updates relevant to the device or installed applications are
promptly applied. The patching process should be automated
8-8-8756 Critical Changed
whenever possible. The system should be rebooted
immediately after patching if required for the patch to take
effect.
Service Providers, Network Operations and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should set policy within each corporation or agency to
8-8-8757 Important Changed
provide guidance when there is a security breach.
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Public Safety Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
should consider implementing a control-signaled (i.e. SIP)
network using media gateway controllers according to
appropriate industry standards (i.e. Internet Engineering Task
8-8-8771 Important Changed
Force (IETF)) in order to achieve interoperability between the
IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem and
Circuit Switched (CS) networks.
Service Providers, Network Operators, Equipment Suppliers Add Industry Role(s): Public Safety
and Public Safety should establish a process for releasing
8-8-8772 information to members of the law enforcement and Critical Changed
intelligence communities and identify a single Point of
Contact (POC) for coordination/referral activities.
Page 56 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) Service Providers (VSP) Remarks/Comments section:
should conduct extensive 9-1-1 call-through testing for Because the "originating end user" customers are
environments that have a high user capacity (e.g., university also stakeholders in the success of a 9-1-1 call,
campuses, large commercial enterprise campuses, and densely they should also participate in testing with the
8-8-0901 populated multi-tenant buildings/complexes) to immediately VSP. This best practice is also applicable to legacy Important Changed
reduce the risk of misrouting a block of callers at a particular private branch exchange (PBX) environments; the
facility and in turn reduce the liability for those same entities. PBX service provider should perform the
extensive call-through testing steps.
Service Providers and Network Operators when reconfiguring Modifications: Acronyms defined and BP re-
their network (e.g., changes to Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), structured into two BPs (see New WG8-2-10).
Mobile Position Center (MPC), Gateway Mobile Location Highly
8-8-0902 Changed
Center (GMLC), or Emergency Services Gateway (ESGW)) Important
should assess the impact on the routing of 9-1-1 calls.
UNCHANGED BEST PRACTICES WITH NOTE ADDITION ONLY
As appropriate, Network Operators and Service Providers Remarks/Comments section:
should deploy security and reliability related software updates Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
(e.g., patches, maintenance releases, dot releases) when operations.
available between major software releases. Prior to
deployment, appropriate testing should be conducted to
8-5-0536 Unchanged
ensure that such software updates are ready for deployment in
live networks. Equipment Suppliers should include such
software updates in the next generic release and relevant
previous generic releases.
Back-out MOPs: Network Operators and Service Providers Remarks/Comments section:
should, where appropriate, have a documented back-out plan Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0418 as part of a Method of Procedure (MOP) for scheduled and operations. Unchanged
unscheduled maintenance activities.
Cable Management: Equipment Suppliers should provide Remarks/Comments section:
cable management features and installation instructions for Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
network elements that maintain cable bend radius, provide operations.
8-7-0423 strain relief to prevent cable damage, ensure adequate cable Unchanged
connector spacing for maintenance activities, and provide
clear access for cable rearrangement (i.e. moves/add/deletes)
and FRU (Field Replaceable Unit) swaps.
Page 57 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators and Service Providers should consider Remarks/Comments section:
establishing a customer advocacy function to take part in the Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0447 development and scheduling of changes in order to minimize operations. Unchanged
impact.
Network Operators and Service Providers should, where Remarks/Comments section:
feasible, deploy SPAM controls in relevant nodes (e.g., Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0449 message centers, email gateways) in order to protect critical operations. Unchanged
network elements and services.
Network Operators should maintain records of pertinent Remarks/Comments section:
information related to a cell site for its prioritization in Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0456 disaster recovery and key coverage areas (e.g., emergency operations. Unchanged
services, government agencies, proximity to hospitals).
Capacity Monitoring: Network Operators and Service Remarks/Comments section:
Providers should engineer and monitor networks to ensure Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
that operating parameters are within capacity limits of their operations.
network design (e.g., respect limitations of deployed packet
8-7-0519 switches, routers and interconnects, including "managed Unchanged
networks" and "managed CPE"). These resource
requirements should be re-evaluated as services change or
grow.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should support sharing of appropriate information Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0529 pertaining to outages as an effort to decrease the potential of operations. Unchanged
further propagation (e.g., ATIS NIIF reference document).
Network Operators and Service Providers should minimize Remarks/Comments section:
single points of failure (SPOF) in paths linking network Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
elements deemed critical to the operations of a network (with operations.
8-7-0546 Unchanged
this design, two or more simultaneous failures or errors need
to occur at the same time to cause a service interruption).
Network Operators and Service Providers should place critical Remarks/Comments section:
8-7-0547 network databases (e.g., directory server, feature server, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 Unchanged
Service Control Point (SCP)) in a secure environment across operations.
Page 58 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
distributed locations to provide service assurance (e.g.,
maintainability, connectivity, security, reliability) consistent
with other critical network elements.
Post Mortem Review: Network Operators and Service Remarks/Comments section:
Providers should have an internal post mortem process to Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
complete root cause analysis of major network events with operations.
follow-up implementation of corrective and preventive
8-7-0548 actions to minimize the probability of recurrence. Network Unchanged
Operators and Service Providers should engage Equipment
Suppliers and other involved parties, as appropriate, to assist
in the analysis and implementation of corrective measures.
Service Providers, Network Operators and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers and Government representatives [of the National Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Security Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) community] operations.
8-7-0584 should work together to support appropriate industry and Unchanged
international organizations to develop and implement NS/EP
standards in packet networks.
Government, Network Operators and Service Providers of Remarks/Comments section:
critical services to National Security and Emergency Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Preparedness (NS/EP) users should avail themselves of the operations.
8-7-0587 Unchanged
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP) program and
support / promote as applicable.
Network Operators and Service Providers should provide Remarks/Comments section:
duplicated, non-co-located maintenance administration, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
surveillance and support for network elements. Monitoring operations.
8-7-0592 Unchanged
and administration locations should be minimized to provide
consistency of operations and overall management.
Maintaining SS7 Link Diversity: Network Operators and Remarks/Comments section:
Service Providers should follow industry guidelines for Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
validating SS7 link diversity. SS7 link diversification operations.
validation should be performed at a minimum of twice a year,
8-7-0594 Unchanged
and at least one of those validations should include a physical
validation of equipment compared to the recorded
documentation of diversity.
Page 59 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators and Service Providers should be aware of Remarks/Comments section:
the dynamic nature of peak traffic periods and should consider Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
scheduling potentially service-affecting procedures (e.g., operations.
8-7-0595 Unchanged
maintenance, high risk procedures, growth activities) so as to
minimize the impact on end-user services.
Network Operators and Service Providers should carefully Remarks/Comments section:
review all re-home procedures, undertake meticulous pre- Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0596 planning before execution, and ensure that re-home operations. Unchanged
procedures are carefully followed.
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Remarks/Comments section:
and document a process to plan, test, evaluate and implement Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0600 Unchanged
major change activities onto their network. operations.
Network Operators and Service Providers should restrict Remarks/Comments section:
commands available to technicians to ensure authorized Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0601 access and use, and maintain, manage and protect an audit operations. Unchanged
trail.
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish Remarks/Comments section:
procedures to reactivate alarms after provisioning or Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0602 maintenance activities (when alarms are typically operations. Unchanged
deactivated).
Network Operators and Service Providers should assess the Remarks/Comments section:
synchronization needs of the network elements and interfaces Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0605 that comprise their networks to develop and maintain a operations. Unchanged
detailed synchronization plan.
Network Operators and Service Providers should utilize Remarks/Comments section:
network surveillance and monitoring to keep overflow traffic Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
conditions from adversely affecting networks. operations.
8-7-0608 Unchanged
Interconnecting companies should address the control of
overflow conditions in their bilateral agreements.
Network Operators and Service Providers should verify both Remarks/Comments section:
local and remote alarms and remote network element Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0612 Unchanged
maintenance access on all new critical equipment installed in operations.
the network, before it is placed into service.
Page 60 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators and Service Providers should test complex Remarks/Comments section:
configuration changes before and after the change to ensure Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0615 Unchanged
the appropriate and expected results. operations.
Route Controls: Network Operators and Service Providers Remarks/Comments section:
should ensure that routing controls are implemented and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0617 Unchanged
managed to prevent adverse routing conditions. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers, Equipment Suppliers Remarks/Comments section:
and Property Managers should develop and execute standard Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Method of Procedure (MOP) for all vendor work in or operations.
8-7-0630 Unchanged
external to equipment locations with emphasis on service
continuity and safety precautions.
Network Operators and Service Providers and Property Remarks/Comments section:
Managers should ensure critical network facilities have Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0649 Unchanged
appropriate fire detection and alarm systems. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should retain complete authority about when to transfer from Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0653 Unchanged
the electric utility and operate standby generators. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should not normally enter into power curtailment or load Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0654 Unchanged
sharing contracts with electric utilities. operations.
Network Operators and Service Providers should establish a Remarks/Comments section:
general requirement for power conditioning, monitoring and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0656 Unchanged
protection for sensitive equipment. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should coordinate scheduled power generator tests with all Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0663 Unchanged
building occupants to avoid interruptions. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should provide indicating type control fuses on the Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
front of the power panels, including smaller distribution operations.
8-7-0664 Unchanged
panels.
Page 61 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should provide and maintain accurate single line drawings of Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0665 Unchanged
AC switch equipment on-site. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should keep circuit breaker racking/ratchet tools, spare fuses, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0667 Unchanged
fuse pullers, etc. readily available. operations.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should provide diverse power feeds for all Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
redundant links (e.g., SS7, BITS clocks) and any components operations.
8-7-0679 Unchanged
identified as "critical" single points of failure (SPOF) in
transport and operations of the network.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Property Managers Remarks/Comments section:
should emphasize the use of Methods Of Procedures (MOPs), Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0693 vendor monitoring, and performing work on in-service operations. Unchanged
equipment during low traffic periods.
Network Operators and Service Providers should check for Remarks/Comments section:
current flow in cables with AC/DC clamp-on ammeters before Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0694 removing the associated fuses or opening the circuits during operations. Unchanged
removal projects.
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should consider the need for power expertise/power Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0700 Unchanged
teams. operations.
Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators should develop and implement a rapid
Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0736 restoration program for cables and facilities. Unchanged
operations.
Remarks/Comments section:
Equipment Suppliers should design equipment so that
Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0745 changes and upgrades are non-service impacting. Unchanged
operations.
Equipment Suppliers should provide a mechanism for feature Remarks/Comments section:
activation or deactivation that is not service impacting to end- Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0750 Unchanged
users (e.g., avoid re-boot, re-start or re-initialization). operations.
Page 62 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Operators and Service Providers should ensure that Remarks/Comments section:
engineering, design, and installation processes address how Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0759 new network elements are integrated into the office and operations. Unchanged
network synchronization plan(s).
Service Providers should consider using a minimum Remarks/Comments section:
interoperable subset for VoIP coding standards (for example, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
TI 811 mandates the use of G.711) in a VoIP-to-PSTN operations.
8-7-0766 gateway configuration in order to achieve interoperability and Unchanged
support all types of voiceband communication (e.g., DTMF
tones, facsimile, TTY/TDD).
Network Operators and Service Providers should consult and Remarks/Comments section:
update the synchronization plan whenever facility (e.g., intra- Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
/inter-office or inter-provider interconnect circuits) operations.
8-7-0775 rearrangements, additions, deletions, or consolidations are Unchanged
planned. Verify the completed changes against the
synchronization plan.
Service Providers, Network Operators and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should work to establish operational standards and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0805 practices that support broadband capabilities and operations. Unchanged
interoperability (e.g., video, voice, data, wireless).
For the deployment of Residential Internet Access Service, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators should provide backup power for Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-0819 broadband network equipment when economically and operations. Unchanged
technically practical.
For the deployment of Residential Internet Access Service, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Suppliers should design, build, and operate broadband operations.
8-7-0823 networks considering performance aspects of the data Unchanged
facilities employed, such as: packet loss ratio, Bit Error
Ratio, latency, and compression, where feasible.
Network Operators should develop a strategy for deployment Remarks/Comments section:
of emergency mobile assets such as Cell on Wheels (COWs), Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-1033 Unchanged
cellular repeaters, Switch on Wheels (SOWs), transportable operations.
satellite terminals, microwave equipment, power generators,
Page 63 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
HVAC units, etc. for emergency use or service augmentation
for planned events (e.g., National Special Security Event
(NSSE)).
Network Operators, Service Providers and Equipment Remarks/Comments section:
Suppliers should, at the time of the event, coordinate with the Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
appropriate local, state, or federal agencies to facilitate timely operations.
8-7-5112 access by their personnel to establish, restore or maintain Unchanged
communications, through any governmental security
perimeters (e.g., civil disorder, crime scene, disaster area).
Network Operators should evaluate the priority on re- Remarks/Comments section:
establishing diversity of facility entry points (e.g., copper or Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-7-5252 fiber conduit, network interfaces for entrance facilities) during operations. Unchanged
the restoration process.
Document Single Points of Failure: Service Providers and Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators should implement a continuous Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
engineering process to identify and record single points of operations.
failure and any components that are critical to the continuity
8-8-8005 Unchanged
of the infrastructure. The process should then pursue
architectural solutions to mitigate the identified risks as
appropriate.
Hardening OAM&P User Access Control: Service Providers, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should, for Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
OAM&P applications and interfaces, harden the access operations.
control capabilities of each network element or system before
deployment to the extent possible (typical steps are to remove
default accounts, change default passwords, turn on checks
8-8-8018 for password complexity, turn on password aging, turn on Unchanged
limits on failed password attempts, turn on session inactivity
timers, etc.). A preferred approach is to connect each element
or system's access control mechanisms to a robust AAA
server (e.g., a RADIUS or TACAS server) with properly
hardened access control configuration settings.
Hardening OSs for OAM&P: Service Providers, Network Remarks/Comments section:
8-8-8019 Operators, and Equipment Suppliers with devices equipped Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1 Unchanged
with operating systems used for OAM&P should have operations.
Page 64 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
operating system hardening procedures applied. Harding
procedures include (a) all unnecessary services are disabled;
(b) all unnecessary communications pathways are disabled;
(c) all critical security patches have been evaluated for
installations on said systems/applications; and d) review and
implement published hardening guidelines, as appropriate.
Where critical security patches cannot be applied,
compensating controls should be implemented.
Distribution of Encryption Keys: When Service Providers, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers use an Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
encryption technology in the securing of network equipment operations.
and transmission facilities, cryptographic keys must be
8-8-8026 distributed using a secure protocol that: a) Ensures the Unchanged
authenticity of the sender and recipient, b) Does not depend
upon secure transmission facilities, and c) Cannot be
emulated by a non-trusted source.
Patching Practices: Service Providers, Network Operators, Remarks/Comments section:
and Equipment Suppliers should design and deploy a patching Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8032 process based on industry recommendations, especially for operations. Unchanged
critical OAM&P systems.
Software Patching Policy: Service Providers and Network Remarks/Comments section:
Operators should define and incorporate a formal patch/fix Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8034 Unchanged
policy into the organization's security policies. operations.
Threat Awareness: Service providers and Network Operators Remarks/Comments section:
should subscribe to vendor patch/security notifications and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
services to remain current with new vulnerabilities, viruses, operations.
8-8-8071 Unchanged
and other security flaws relevant to systems deployed on the
network.
Denial of Service (DoS) Attack - Target: Where possible, Remarks/Comments section:
Service Provider and Network Operator networks and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Equipment Supplier equipment should be designed to survive operations.
8-8-8074 significant increases in both packet count and bandwidth Unchanged
utilization. Infrastructure supporting mission critical services
should be designed for significant increases in traffic volume
and must include network devices capable of filtering and/or
Page 65 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
rate limiting traffic. Network engineers must understand the
capabilities of the devices and how to employ them to
maximum effect. Wherever practical, mission critical systems
should be deployed in clustered configuration allowing for
load balancing of excess traffic and protected by a purpose
built DoS/DDoS protection device. Operators of critical
infrastructure should deploy DoS survivable hardware and
software whenever possible.
Use Strong Passwords: Service Provider, Network Operators, Remarks/Comments section:
and Equipment Suppliers should create an enforceable policy Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
that considers different types of users and requires the use of operations.
passwords or stronger authentication methods. Where
passwords can be used to enhance needed access controls,
8-8-8079 Unchanged
ensure they are sufficiently long and complex to defy brute
force guessing and deter password cracking. To assure
compliance, perform regular audits of passwords on at least a
sampling of the systems.
Change Passwords on a Periodic Basis: Service Providers, Remarks/Comments section:
Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should change Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
passwords on a periodic basis implementing a policy which operations.
considers different types of users and how often passwords
8-8-8080 should be changed. Perform regular audits on passwords, Unchanged
including privileged passwords, on system and network
devices. If available, activate features across the user base
which force password changes.
Protect Authentication Methods: Service Providers, Network Remarks/Comments section:
Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should develop an Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
enforceable password policy, which considers different types operations.
8-8-8081 of users, requiring users to protect, as applicable, either (a) the Unchanged
passwords they are given/create or (b) their credentials for
two-factor authentication.
Document and Verify All Security Operational Procedures: Remarks/Comments section:
Service Providers and Network Operators should ensure that Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8101 all security operational procedures, system processes, and operations. Unchanged
security controls are documented, and that documentation is
up to date and accessible by appropriate staff. Perform gap
Page 66 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
analysis/audit of security operational procedures as often as
security policy requires relative to the asset being protected.
Using results of analysis or audit, determine which
procedures, processes, or controls need to be updated and
documented.
Protect Sensitive Data in Transit for Externally Accessible Remarks/Comments section:
Applications: Service Providers and Network Operators Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
should encrypt sensitive data from web servers, and other operations.
8-8-8111 Unchanged
externally accessible applications, while it is in transit over
any networks they do not physically control.
Conduct Organization Wide Security Awareness Training: Remarks/Comments section:
Service Providers, Network Operators, and Equipment Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Suppliers should ensure staff is given awareness training on operations.
security policies, standards, procedures, and general best
practices. Awareness training should also cover the threats to
8-8-8124 Unchanged
the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data including
social engineering. Training as part of new employee
orientation should be supplemented with regular "refreshers"
to all staff.
Leverage Business Impact Analysis for Incident Response Remarks/Comments section:
Planning: Service Providers and Network Operators should Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
leverage the BCP/DR Business Impact Assessment (BIA) operations.
8-8-8132 Unchanged
efforts as input to prioritizing and planning Information
Security Incident Response efforts.
Security of Devices Beyond Scope of Control: Service Remarks/Comments section:
Providers should carefully consider possible impacts on their Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
networks from changes in the configuration or authentication operations.
information on devices beyond the service demarcation point,
8-8-8134 Unchanged
and thus beyond their physical or logical scope of control.
Service Providers should consider network filters or network
authentication to protect against malicious traffic or theft of
service caused by such insecure devices.
Recover from Poor Network Isolation and Partitioning: Remarks/Comments section:
When, through audit or incident, a co-mingling of data or Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8509 Unchanged
violation of a trust relationship is discovered, Service operations.
Providers and Network Operators should, as part of a post-
Page 67 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
mortem process, review segmentation design to evaluate
adequacy of the architecture and data isolation.
Recovery from Network Element Resource Saturation Attack: Remarks/Comments section:
If the control plane is under attack, Service Providers and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Network Operators should: 1) Turn on logging where operations.
8-8-8523 appropriate to analyze the logs, 2) Implement the appropriate Unchanged
filter and access list to discard the attack traffic 3) Utilize
DoS/DDoS tracking methods to identify the source of attack.
Recover from Unauthorized Remote OAM&P Access: When Remarks/Comments section:
an unauthorized remote access to an OAM&P system occurs, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Service Providers and Network Operators should consider operations.
terminating all current remote access, limiting access to the
system console, or other tightened security access methods.
8-8-8540 Unchanged
Continue recovery by re-establishing new passwords,
reloading software, running change detection software, or
other methods, continuing quarantine until recovery is
validated, as practical.
Sharing Information with Industry & Government during Remarks/Comments section:
Recovery: During a security event, Service Providers, Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
Network Operators, and Equipment Suppliers should release operations.
to the National Communications Service National
Coordination Center (ncs@ncs.gov) or USCERT
(cert@cert.org) information which may be of value in
analyzing and responding to the issue, following review, edit
8-8-8553 and approval commensurate with corporate policy. Unchanged
Information is released to these forums with an understanding
redistribution is not permitted. Information which has been
approved for public release and could benefit the broader
affected community should be disseminated in the more
popular security and networking forums such as NANOG and
the Security Focus Mailing Lists.
Service Standards: Service Providers should develop and Remarks/Comments section:
implement security event logging systems and procedures to Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8647 Unchanged
allow for collection of security related events. operations.
Page 68 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
General: Service Providers and Network Operators [that Remarks/Comments section:
provide or manage Customer Premise Equipment (CPE)] Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
8-8-8648 Unchanged
should ensure that initial configurations are secure. operations.
Signaling DoS Protection: Network Operators should Remarks/Comments section:
establish alarming thresholds for various message types to Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
ensure that DoS conditions are recognized. Logs should be operations.
8-8-8725 maintained and policies established to improve screening and Unchanged
alarming thresholds for differentiating legitimate traffic from
DoS attacks.
Signaling Services Requested Changes: Network Operators Remarks/Comments section:
should establish policies and processes for adding and Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
configuring network elements, that include approval for operations.
additions and changes to configuration tables (e.g., screening
8-8-8729 Unchanged
tables, call tables, trusted hosts, and calling card tables).
Verification rules should minimize the possibility of receiving
inappropriate messages.
Recover from Unauthorized Use: Network Operators and Remarks/Comments section:
Service Providers should remove invalid records whenever it Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
is determined that a network element has been modified operations.
8-8-8759 without proper authorization, or rollback to the last valid Unchanged
version of record. The attack should be investigated to
identify potential security changes.
Recover from DoS Attack: Network Operators and Service Remarks/Comments section:
Providers should work together to identify, filter, and isolate Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
the originating points of Denial of Service (DoS) attacks operations.
8-8-8762 Unchanged
when detected, and reroute legitimate traffic in order to
restore normal service.
Social Engineering: Network Operators, Service Providers Remarks/Comments section:
and Equipment Suppliers should establish policies in Note: This Best Practice could impact 9-1-1
preventing socially engineered attacks, but perhaps the most operations.
8-8-8773 Unchanged
important step is educating employees to make them aware of
the danger of social engineering. Source:
http://www.windowsecurity.com/articles/Social_Engineers.ht
Page 69 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
ml
• Training the front-line employees through case studies and
understanding the need to recognize social engineering threats
and its harmful consequences. The training must include:
1- Be suspicious of unsolicited phone calls, visits, or email
messages from individuals asking about employees or other
internal information. If an unknown individual claims to be
from a legitimate organization, try to verify his or her identity
directly with the company.
2- Do not provide personal information or information about
your organization, including its structure or networks, unless
you are certain of a person's authority to have the information.
3- Do not reveal personal or financial information in email,
and do not respond to email solicitations for this information.
This includes following links sent in email.
4- Don't send sensitive information over the Internet before
checking a website's security (see Protecting Your Privacy for
more information).
5- Pay attention to the URL of a website. Malicious websites
may look identical to a legitimate site, but the URL may use a
variation in spelling or a different domain (e.g., .com vs. .net).
Page 70 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
6- If you are unsure whether an email request is legitimate, try
to verify it by contacting the company directly. Do not use
contact information provided on a website connected to the
request; instead, check previous statements for contact
information. Information about known phishing attacks is also
available online from groups such as the Anti-Phishing
Working Group (http://www.antiphishing.org).
Page 71 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
8 Appendix 3 – Consumer Best Practices
CSRIC CSRIC III
III Best CSRIC III Best Practice CSRIC III BP Reference/Comments Best (New/Changed/
Practice Practice Unchanged/
Number Status Deleted)
NEW CATEGORY - CONSUMER BEST PRACTICES
Consumers should dial 9-1-1 if they are unsure of whether Network Types(s): Children; Employees;
their situation is an emergency requiring Police, Fire, Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Emergency Medical Services or other emergency agency
response or assistance. Industry Role(s): Consumers New
WG8-3-1 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education; What
to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers should know the location of their emergency Network Types(s): Children; Employees;
and should be able to provide it to the 9-1-1 call taker when Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
asked.
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
New
WG8-3-2 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Knowing Your Location; Residential; What to Say
and Do
Consumers should install telephones so that all potential 9-1-1 Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
callers are able to physically reach at least one phone at their Owners
location.
Industry Role(s): Consumers New
WG8-3-3 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Residential;
Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should teach children their name, parents name, Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners;
telephone number, address, etc., and to provide that to the 9- Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
1-1 call taker when asked. New
WG8-3-4 Critical
Industry Role(s): Consumers Consumer
Keywords(s): Family Education; Knowing Your
Page 72 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Location; Residential; Training Methods; What to
Say and Do
Consumers should teach children to stay on the line with a 9- Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners;
1-1 operator until instructed to hang up as long as it is safe to Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
do so.
Industry Role(s): Consumers
New
WG8-3-5 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Family Education; Knowing Your
Location; Residential; Training Methods; What to
Say and Do
Consumers should report missing street signs or other Network Types(s): Business Owners;
directional marking to appropriate authorities when noted. Employees; Government; Home Owners
Industry Role(s): Consumers New
WG8-3-6 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Residential; When to Call
9-1-1 Callers should stay calm when calling 9-1-1 and clearly Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
provide information about their emergency when asked. Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
New
WG8-3-7 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Knowing Your Location; Residential; What to Say
and Do
TTY/TDD users without access to Relay Services should dial Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
9-1-1, preferably from a landline phone. Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): TTY/TDD Users New
WG8-3-8 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; What to Say and
Do; Wireline
Page 73 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
9-1-1 Callers should not hang up when calling from a wireless Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Children;
device and unable to speak. Keeping the phone line open Employees; Home Owners;
allows 9-1-1 call takers to obtain approximate location and/or Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
hear background noises.
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers New
WG8-3-9 Critical
Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Emergency Personnel;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; What
to Say and Do; Wireless
TTY/TDD Users should remain calm, and remember to place Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
the phone handset in the TTY receiver before dialing 9-1-1. Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): TTY/TDD Users
WG8-3- New
Critical
10 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; What
to Say and Do
TTY/TDD Users should communicate to the 9-1-1 call taker Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
what is needed (e.g., Police, Fire, or Emergency Medical Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Services (EMS)) and provide their name, phone number, and
the address of the emergency. Industry Role(s): TTY/TDD Users
WG8-3- New
Critical
11 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Knowing Your
Location; Residential; What to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers should be aware when using Video Relay Network Types(s): Business Owners;
Service (VRS) or Internet Protocol (IP) Relay that a call may Employees; Home Owners;
take several minutes to connect before a conversation can be Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
started and hanging up may prevent a connection to 9-1-1 call
WG8-3- takers. Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers New
Critical
12 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Next Generation;
Residential; What to Say and Do
WG8-3- 9-1-1 Callers should be aware that location information Network Types(s): Business Owners; New
Critical
13 through a Video Relay Service (VRS) or Internet Protocol Employees; Home Owners; Consumer
Page 74 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
(IP) Relay may not always be provided to 9-1-1 call takers Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
and should be prepared to provide an address, cross streets, or
landmarks as necessary. Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Next Generation;
Residential; What to Say and Do
Consumers should register and provide their physical address Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
with their service provider when using Voice over Internet Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Protocol (VoIP) whenever activating, updating, or moving
services to keep their 9-1-1 emergency services location Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
accurate. Critical
14 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Next Generation; Residential; Updating
Information; Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should be aware that 9-1-1 centers, in most cases, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Business
cannot receive text messages, photos, or video and when Owners; Employees; Home Owners;
needing 9-1-1 emergency assistance and should dial 9-1-1 on Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
their phone for help.
Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
Critical
15 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Emergency Personnel; Device Use; Family
Education; Next Generation; Residential; Training
Methods; When to Call
Consumers should limit calls during periods of natural or Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Business
man-made disasters to reduce network congestion. Owners; Children; Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
16 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; When to Call; Wireless;
Wireline
WG8-3- Consumers should attempt to communicate via other Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children; New
Critical
17 mechanisms such as text, e-mail, or other social media in Employees; Home Owners; Consumer
Page 75 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
cases where non-emergency calls cannot be completed during Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
disaster situations.
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; When to Call; Wireless;
Wireline
9-1-1 callers should wait at least 10 seconds if disconnected Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
before redialing 9-1-1 to provide time for the call taker to Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
attempt to call back.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers New
Critical
18 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; What to Say and Do
Consumers with disabilities should check with local law Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
enforcement officials to see if they have additional systems to Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
inform public safety agencies of pertinent information or
WG8-3- needs for the caller. Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
19 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; When to Call
Consumers with disabilities should ensure that any additional Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
information databases that they update with law enforcement Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
officials are kept current.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
20 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Residential; Updating Information
Consumers with personal care assistants should work with Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners;
that person to decide on how they will communicate during an Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
emergency or if they become separated.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
21 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Device Use;
Family Education; Knowing Your Location;
Residential; What to Say and Do; When to Call
Page 76 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Consumers with special medical needs should give Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
consideration to the use of a medical alert system to contact Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
emergency service providers on their behalf if they need to
contact emergency services. Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
Critical
22 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Device Use;
Family Education; Knowing Your Location;
Residential; When to Call
Consumers should be aware that most 9-1-1 centers do not Network Types(s): Business Owners;
currently have the ability to receive any type of multi-media Employees; Home Owners;
or text messaging. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
23 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential;
Training Methods
Consumers should always contact 9-1-1 directly rather than Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
rely on a friends or family notification feature to obtain help Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
during an emergency.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
24 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential
Consumers with traditional landline phone service should Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
keep at least one phone (e.g., a non-cordless phone) that does Owners
not require external AC power to be available in emergencies.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Critical
25 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Residential; Wireline
Consumers should limit use of their mobile devices to watch Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
WG8-3- New
streaming videos during, or immediately after a disaster to Employees; Home Owners; Critical
26 Consumer
help reduce network congestion and to allow potential Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Page 77 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
emergency traffic (e.g. 9-1-1) to use the network.
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential
Consumers should dial the 3-1-1 non-emergency number for Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
information and non-emergencies if available in their Employees; Home Owners;
community. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
27 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; When
to Call; Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should be aware that Smart Phone Applications Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
may not work properly if a user has location services disabled Employees; Home Owners;
on their phone to conserve power. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
28 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; When
to Call; Wireless
Consumers (e.g., business, multiple tenant locations, campus Network Types(s): Business Owners;
environments, medical campuses, schools, etc.) should Government
determine if there are special laws governing the location
WG8-3- identification of 9-1-1 callers upon their property. Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
29 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Wireless;
Wireline
Consumers using "smart phones" should call 9-1-1 directly Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
rather than attempting to use a smart phone application Employees; Home Owners;
WG8-3- service. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers Highly New
30 Important Consumer
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Page 78 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; What
to Say and Do; When to Call; Wireless
Consumers should maintain a list of emergency numbers (i.e., Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
In Case of Emergency [ICE]) in their mobile phones to assist Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Emergency Service Providers if necessary.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
31 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; Updating Information
9-1-1 Callers should not hang up if they dial 9-1-1 by mistake. Network Types(s): Children; Employees;
This helps to prevent unnecessary follow-up by the 9-1-1 call Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
center or public safety authorities and allows the caller to
WG8-3- explain the call was a mistake. Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers Highly New
32 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Residential; What to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers should remain calm and promptly answer all of Network Types(s): Children; Employees;
the call taker questions. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
WG8-3- Highly New
33 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Knowing Your Location; Residential; What to Say
and Do
Consumers should never make prank phone calls to 9-1-1. Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
34 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Residential
Consumers should post their address clearly and prominently Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
WG8-3- Highly New
so that it is visible to emergency service providers. Owners
35 Important Consumer
Page 79 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Knowing Your Location
Consumers should install Address Markers so that they are Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
locatable both during daylight and nighttime hours in order to Owners
assist emergency service providers.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
36 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Knowing Your Location
Consumers should not assume that marking their mailbox is Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
sufficient for emergency personnel to locate a 9-1-1 Caller's Owners
location.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
37 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Knowing Your Location
Consumers should not dial the number 9-1-1 for information, Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
directory assistance, or non-emergencies. Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
38 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Residential; When to Call
Consumers should not dial the number 9-1-1 for contacting Network Types(s): ): Business Owners;
non-emergency city, county, or municipal services. Children; Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Highly New
Industry Role(s): Consumers
39 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Residential; When to Call
WG8-3- 9-1-1 Callers should speak clearly and distinctly to the 9-1-1 Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home Highly New
40 call taker when providing their name, number, and address of Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers Important Consumer
Page 80 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
their emergency.
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Knowing Your Location; Residential; What to Say
and Do
9-1-1 Callers and TTY/TDD Users should stay on the line if it Network Types(s): Children; Employees; Home
is safe to do so, until instructed to hang up. Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
WG8-3- Highly New
41 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Family Education; Residential; What to Say and
Do
Consumers should register and provide their address when Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
using Video Relay Service (VRS) or Internet Protocol (IP) Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Relay and keep that address updated regularly.
Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- Highly New
42 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Next Generation; Residential;
Updating Information; What to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers should be prepared to promptly and accurately Network Types(s): Business Owners;
respond to all 9-1-1 call taker questions when using Video Employees; Home Owners;
Relay Service (VRS), Internet Protocol (IP) Relay service Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
and/or TTY/TDD.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers Highly New
43 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Family Education; Next Generation; Residential;
What to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers should be aware that when using Video Relay Network Types(s): Business Owners;
Service (VRS) or Internet Protocol (IP) Relay the call may Employees; Home Owners;
WG8-3- Highly New
need to be transferred by the 9-1-1 call taker to another 9-1-1 Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
44 Important Consumer
center and they should stay on the call if it is safe to do so.
Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers
Page 81 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Next Generation;
Residential; What to Say and Do
Consumers should be familiar with and keep handy their Network Types(s): Business Owners;
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service provider’s Employees; Home Owners;
procedures for updating information for 9-1-1 emergency Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
services in the event a change or update is necessary.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers Highly New
45 Important Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Next Generation; Residential; Updating
Information; Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should have a clear understanding of any potential Network Types(s): Business Owners;
limitations regarding 9-1-1 emergency services (e.g., location Employees; Home Owners;
identification) when considering or subscribing to a Voice Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
46 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Next Generation; Residential;
Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should educate children, babysitters, and visitors Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners;
about any 9-1-1 emergency service limitations, if any, if the Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
household uses a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
47 Consumer
Keywords(s): Device Use; Family Education;
Next Generation; Residential; Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should be aware their Voice over Internet Protocol Network Types(s): Business Owners;
(VoIP) service may not operate if power is out or their Employees; Home Owners;
internet connection is down and may want to consider Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- New
installing a backup power supply or have an alternate means Important
48 Consumer
of calling 9-1-1 (e.g., traditional phone line, cell phone, Industry Role(s): Consumers
satellite phone) if necessary.
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Page 82 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Device Use; Family Education; Next Generation;
Residential; Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should contact their service provider if they are Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
unsure if they are receiving their phone service over Voice Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
over Internet Protocol (VoIP).
Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
Important
49 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Next Generation; Residential;
Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should keep phones charged to reduce Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
disconnections and loss of communication during a 9-1-1 call. Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- New
Industry Role(s): Consumers Important
50 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; What to Say and Do
9-1-1 Callers in vehicles should attempt to place emergency Network Types(s): Business Owners;
calls while the vehicle is stationary. Employees; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): 9-1-1 Callers New
Important
51 Consumer
Keywords(s): Device Use; Family Education;
What to Say and Do; Wireless
Consumers should listen to broadcast TV and/or radio news Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
for important Public Safety Alerts (e.g., PDAs, text radio Employees; Home Owners;
systems, NOAA radio, etc.) and/or additional instructions Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
during times of man-made or natural disasters.
WG8-3- New
Industry Role(s): Consumers Important
52 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Family Education; What to Say and Do
WG8-3- Consumers should visit websites with additional information Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children; New
Important
53 about 9-1-1 (e.g., NENA, APCO, FEMA, 9-1-1forkids). Employees; Home Owners; Consumer
Page 83 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Training Methods
Consumers should be aware that 9-1-1 centers do not Network Types(s): Business Owners;
generally provide 9-1-1 call takers with access to the internet. Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
54 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential;
Training Methods
Consumers should contact their local public safety authorities Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Business
to determine if their 9-1-1 center has the ability to accept Owners; Government; Home Owners;
multi-media or text messaging. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
55 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential;
Training Methods
Consumers should not program devices (e.g., smart phones, Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
tablets, building alarm systems) for automated calling to 9-1-1 Owners
as that practice may violate local, state, or federal laws.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
56 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Residential; When to Call
Consumers should notify their "in case of emergency" (ICE) Network Types(s): Employees;
emergency contacts that they may be contacted on their Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- New
behalf, and inform them of any medical issues or special Important
57 Consumer
needs that they may have. Industry Role(s): Consumers
Page 84 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Updating Information; What to Say
and Do
Consumers without cell phones should consider purchasing a Network Types(s): Business Owners; Home
prepaid phone card to use during or after a disaster. Owners; Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
Important
58 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; When
to Call
Consumers should consider subscribing to text alert services Network Types(s): Business Owners;
(e.g., school boards, local or state governments) if available to Employees; Home Owners;
receive alerts in the event of a disaster. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
WG8-3- New
Industry Role(s): Consumers Important
59 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Residential
Consumers should teach Children on how to call 9-1-1 from Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners;
their location. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
Industry Role(s): Consumers
WG8-3- New
Important
60 Consumer
Keywords(s): Device Use; Family Education;
Knowing Your Location; Residential; Training
Methods; When to Call
Consumers should teach employees on how to call 9-1-1 from Network Types(s): Business Owners;
their location. Employees; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
61 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Knowing
Your Location; Training Methods; When to Call
WG8-3- Consumers should teach children to answer call taker Network Types(s): Children; Home Owners; New
Important
62 questions. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers Consumer
Page 85 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Industry Role(s): Consumers
Keywords(s): Family Education; Knowing Your
Location; Residential; Training Methods; What to
Say and Do
Consumers should know and understand the operation of the Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
phones that they may own or use. Employees; Home Owners;
Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): Consumers New
Important
63 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Device Use; Family
Education; Residential; Training Methods;
Wireless; Wireline
Consumers should look under public education tabs on Network Types(s): Business Owners; Children;
various websites for additional information and training Employees; Home Owners;
regarding 9-1-1. Parents/Guardians/Caregivers; Teachers/Trainers
WG8-3- New
Industry Role(s): Consumers Important
64 Consumer
Keywords(s): Business; Family Education;
Training Methods
TTY/TDD Users should provide the 9-1-1 call taker some Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Children;
time to connect the TTY, and if necessary, repeat the step of Employees; Home Owners;
pressing keys to alert the 9-1-1 call taker to the need for a Parents/Guardians/Caregivers
TTY/TDD conversation.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): TTY/TDD Users New
Important
65 Consumer
Keywords(s): Alternate Methods; Business;
Device Use; Family Education; Residential; What
to Say and Do
Page 86 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
9 Appendix 4 – PSAP Best Practices
CSRIC CSRIC III
III Best CSRIC III Best Practice CSRIC III BP Reference/Comments Best (New/Changed/
Practice Practice Unchanged/
Deleted)
Number Status
NEW CATEGORY - PSAP BEST PRACTICES
PSAPs should develop comprehensive plans to address day- Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
to-day operations, emergencies, and mutual aid with other
PSAPs and jurisdictions. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Critical New PSAP
66 Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Human
Resources; Network Operations; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should plan for all types of events including those that Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
range from large-scale loss of communications infrastructure
requiring network restoration and repair, through those for Industry Role(s): PSAPs
which communications is largely left intact resulting in higher
WG8-3-
PSAP call volumes. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Critical New PSAP
67
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Network
Operations; Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should plan for increased call volumes caused by large Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
scale disasters by ensuring that they have adequate facilities,
functional equipment, appropriate amount of personnel, and Industry Role(s): PSAPs
rerouting plans needed to handle increased call volumes and
WG8-3- overflow situations. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Critical New PSAP
68 Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Human Resources; Network Design;
Network Interoperability; Supervision; Technical
Support
WG8-3- PSAPs should develop mutual aid plans for adequate response Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Critical New PSAP
69 and coverage for disasters that may have a regional impact
Page 87 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
and encompass large geographical areas. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should develop contingency plans that include Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
appropriate strategies for sharing call load and load balancing
among multiple call centers during emergency situations. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
70 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should work with local governments and medical Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
teams to consider 9-1-1 personnel and technical staff in
priority planning for vaccinations. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
71 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should ensure that emergency plans and activities are Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
consistent with the phases of pandemic influenza as defined
by both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the U.S. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Federal Government’s Response Stages. Critical New PSAP
72
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should use call-taking protocols that provide for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
specific influenza-symptom monitoring, triage and priority
dispatch of EMS and public safety resources. The proper legal Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- and medical authority, in coordination with the emergency
Critical New PSAP
73 medical services system, should be predetermined in the Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
planning process. Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should coordinate with public health, law enforcement Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3-
and emergency management agencies to identify mechanisms Critical New PSAP
74
for freedom of movement of PSAP personnel when faced Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Page 88 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
with restricted travel laws, isolation/quarantine or security
measures during a pandemic. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Pandemic
PSAPs should develop processes to be used during recovery Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
from an emergency that include impact assessment,
repair/restoration, alternate solutions, post-incident analysis, Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
and the updating of the emergency management plan. Critical New PSAP
75
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Network
Operations; Power; Procedures
PSAPs should establish an alternate operations site capable of Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
supporting critical Information Technology (IT) and
communications functions for emergency situations. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Critical New PSAP
76
Preparedness; Network Design; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Network
Provisioning
PSAPs should identify and establish safe locations for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
communications systems that require redundancy and back-up
configurations. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Critical New PSAP
77
Preparedness; Network Design; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Network
Provisioning
PSAPs should have plans that identify specific vulnerabilities Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
(e.g., power outages, high wind, flooding) that are most likely
to occur in that specific region and provide resources to Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
overcome them. Critical New PSAP
78
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness
PSAPs should evaluate the resiliency, redundancy, and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3-
interoperability of systems while performing inventory and Critical New PSAP
79
risk assessment analysis. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Page 89 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Network Design; Network
Elements; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations; Network Provisioning; Power;
PSAPs should consider obtaining a last-resort backup means Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
of communication (e.g., Wireless, WIFI, satellite) in response
to adverse conditions, even if technical signal quality is Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- substantially degraded under such conditions, for
Critical New PSAP
80 communicating with employees, police, fire department Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
officials, emergency medical personnel and others in the Recovery; Emergency Preparedness
community as needed.
PSAPs should consider High Frequency (HF) radio as an Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
option, recognizing that HF usually requires a skilled operator
such as a licensed Amateur Radio (HAM) radio operator. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
81
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness
PSAPs should consider the use of divergent routes (e.g., an Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
office across the street that may be fed from a different cable
or transformer) which is best accomplished through Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- discussions with telecommunications service providers.
Critical New PSAP
82 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Design; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations; Network Provisioning
PSAPs should consider obtaining interoffice diversity from its Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
provider even in cases where end-to-end diversity is not
available (e.g., there is only one loop route to the PSAP). Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
83 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Design; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations; Network Provisioning
PSAPs should consider arranging with another PSAP for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3- backup and support in the event of total failure or
Critical New PSAP
84 abandonment of the PSAP. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Page 90 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Essential Services; Policy
PSAPs should consider maintaining vital communications and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Information Technology (IT) equipment in protected locations
with authorized only access. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
85 Keywords(s): Access Control; Buildings;
Business Continuity; Physical Security
Management; Security Systems
PSAPs should consider securing key facilities with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
experienced personnel and/or video surveillance cameras.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
86 Keywords(s): Access Control; Buildings;
Business Continuity; Physical Security
Management; Security Systems
PSAPs should protect communication and Information Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Technology (IT) systems from malicious cyber-attacks and
viruses by implementing security measures such as the regular Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
updating of virus protection and other software security Critical New PSAP
87
programs. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Cyber
Security; Encryption; Network Elements; Policy;
PSAPs should consider activating backup power Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
automatically through the use of a power source having a low
risk of being interrupted during a power outage to maintain Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- continuity of operations (i.e. a power generator).
Critical New PSAP
88 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Hardware;
Network Design; Power
PSAPs should deploy, maintain, and frequently test Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
emergency generators at secure, elevated locations in cases
WG8-3- where it is essential to maintaining daily operations. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Critical New PSAP
89
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Hardware;
Page 91 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Design; Power
PSAPs should ensure that sufficient levels of fuel are Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
available at all times and periodically check those levels.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
90 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Network Design;
Power
PSAPs should ensure that battery backup is available for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
critical communications in case emergency generators fail to
function taking into consideration that batteries are good for Industry Role(s): PSAPs
short term outages but often do not power HVAC equipment
WG8-3-
and may not adequately cool other equipment (e.g., Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Critical New PSAP
91
computers) which may be damaged or shutoff when Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
overheated. Design; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations; Power
PSAPs should establish sources for obtaining fuel to refill Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
generators.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
92 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Operations; Power
PSAPs should ensure backup systems are operating properly Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
and are performing their function when activated.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
93 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations
PASPs should include in risk modeling inclusions that test fail Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
over for lost facilities, loss of human services, current
WG8-3-
structure and building designs, tower locations, and National Industry Role(s): PSAPs Critical New PSAP
94
Institute of Standards for Technology.
Keywords(s): Access Control; Buildings;
Page 92 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Business Continuity; Disaster Recovery;
Emergency Preparedness; Network Design;
Network Interoperability; Network Operations;
Physical Security Management; Policy; Power;
Procedures; Security Systems; Software
PSAPs should perform an analysis that includes single point Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
of failure studies and action prioritization to mitigate failures
using a steady and repeatable process that allows for a gap Industry Role(s): PSAPs
analysis of the systems and their functions.
Keywords(s): Access Control; Business
WG8-3-
Continuity; Disaster Recovery; Emergency Critical New PSAP
95
Preparedness; Network Design; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Physical
Security Management; Policy; Power; Procedures;
Security Systems; Software
PASPs should include in risk modeling studies of current Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
design and standards, as well as recovery based upon current
service level agreement response intervals. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Keywords(s): Access Control; Business
WG8-3-
Continuity; Disaster Recovery; Emergency Critical New PSAP
96
Preparedness; Network Design; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Physical
Security Management; Policy; Power; Procedures;
Security Systems; Software
PSAPs should develop a means of personnel identification to Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
insure access during emergency situations for employees and
any mutual aid agencies that may be assisting. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Keywords(s): Access Control; Disaster Critical New PSAP
97
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Physical Security Management; Policy;
Procedures; Security Systems
PSAPs should develop procedures to communicate with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3-
callers that are not using a native language of an available call Critical New PSAP
98
taker. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Page 93 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential
Services; Human Resources; Policy; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should have a training program for new call takers Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
including both call handling and the operation of their system
and equipment. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
99 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential
Services; Human Resources; Policy; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should register all critical circuits with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Telecommunications Service Priority (TSP service) with their
telecommunications carriers. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Critical New PSAP
100 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Policy
PSAPs should design their networks to utilize concepts such Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
as diverse facilities, routes, and self-healing topologies when
possible. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Hardware; Critical New PSAP
101
Network Design; Network Elements; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Network
Provisioning; Power; Security Systems; Software
PSAPs should reroute traffic and network access from Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
congested network components during surge events that
accompany an emergency. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Critical New PSAP
102
Preparedness; Essential Services; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Network
Provisioning; Policy
Page 94 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should work with communication providers to obtain Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
commitments for tabletop exercises, and development of
disaster plans, then put those procedures in place prior to Industry Role(s): PSAPs
large-scale disasters that disrupt communications.
WG8-3- Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Highly
New PSAP
103 Recovery; Documentation; Emergency Important
Preparedness; Essential Services; Human
Resources; Network Operations; Policy;
Procedures; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should routinely practice emergency plans, and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
procedures, and update them to include lessons learned
ensuring training exercises are realistic and challenge the Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- comprehensiveness of the emergency plan. Highly
New PSAP
104 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should practice emergency plans jointly with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
communications providers and review them on an agreed
upon schedule. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
105 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should develop standard operating procedures for call Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
takers to respond to callers.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
106 Important
Keywords(s): Policy; Procedures; Supervision;
Training and Awareness
PSAPs should develop standard operating procedures for call Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
takers to improve accessibility for special needs of people
with hearing and speech disabilities. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
107 Important
Keywords(s): Essential Services; Policy;
Procedures; Supervision; Training and Awareness
Page 95 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should ensure that 9-1-1 services are accessible to all Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
people, including those with hearing and speech disabilities.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
108 Important
Keywords(s): Essential Services; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should implement processes and technology to support Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS) calls.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
109 Important
Keywords(s): Essential Services; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should have accurate, up-to-date information to be Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
effective in call taking, dispatching and relaying information
WG8-3- to the public. Industry Role(s): PSAPs Highly
New PSAP
110 Important
Keywords(s): Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should be integrated into the local, regional, and state Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
incident command structures in order to be fully engaged as a
collaborative partner in the response to any pandemic Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
outbreaks (e.g., influenza). New PSAP
111 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic
PSAPs should have personnel follow infection control Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
measures and industrial hygiene practices as a standard part of
daily practices, and reinforce these measures and practices Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- with continuing education. Highly
New PSAP
112 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures; Training and Awareness
PSAPs and their staff should be included along with elected Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
officials and others, in community drills, with a focus on
WG8-3- Highly
reinforcement of the clear delineation of authority and Industry Role(s): PSAPs New PSAP
113 Important
responsibility in the simulations.
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Page 96 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Policy;
Procedures; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should include specifics in emergency plans that Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
consider accommodations for those with special needs (e.g.,
mental health, limited English proficiency, children, and Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- elderly, home health care) or individuals with disabilities. Highly
New PSAP
114 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should include procedures in emergency plans to Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
identify callers who are likely afflicted by the influenza virus
or another pandemic outbreak and to assign the appropriate Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- resource to provide assistance. Highly
New PSAP
115 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Training and Awareness
PSAPs should consider the use of automated emergency alerts Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
in the form of pre-recorded phone messages and through other
media in the overall strategy for delivering information to the Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
public. New PSAP
116 Important
Keywords(s): Essential Services; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should have procedures during pandemic situations to Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
manage and/or prioritize other non-influenza related requests
for help, and appropriately matching need to resource. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
117 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Training and Awareness
PSAPs should have procedures during pandemic situations to Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
tell callers if no response is available or will be delayed.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): PSAPs Highly
New PSAP
118 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Page 97 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Preparedness; Pandemic; Procedures
PSAPs should have pre-established links with other types of Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
call centers (e.g., 2-1-1 or nurse assist lines) or alternate care
centers to ensure those resources can effectively be utilized in Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- transferring or referring callers during a pandemic influenza. Highly
New PSAP
119 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Pandemic; Procedures
PSAPs should ensure emergency plans for pandemic Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
influenza events are in concert with the appropriate medical
and legal authority. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
120 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Pandemic; Procedures
PSAPs should identify and transfer responsibilities that can be Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
handled by non-PSAP staff during a pandemic influenza to
manage workload. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster New PSAP
121 Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Essential
Services; Human Resources; Pandemic;
Supervision
PSAPs should include in pre-plans existing tools and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
resources needed to support the PSAP during a pandemic.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster New PSAP
122 Important
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Pandemic; Policy; Procedures;
Technical Support
PSAPs should ensure all 9-1-1 personnel are aware of the Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3- overall emergency action plan. Highly
New PSAP
123 Industry Role(s): PSAPs Important
Page 98 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should address infection control training for 9-1-1 Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
personnel in pre-planning for pandemic influenza.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
124 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Training and Awareness
PSAPs should address how they will staff different positions Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
based on the skill levels needed in the pre-planning process.
More routine tasks within the PSAP may be handled with Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- alternative staffing, with the goal to have trained call takers Highly
New PSAP
125 available to interface with the public for the most critical 9-1- Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
1 calls. Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Pandemic; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should identify staffing alternatives (e.g., retirees, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
former employees, staff from other departments) in the pre-
planning process to free up trained staff and supervisors to Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- answer critical 9-1-1 calls. Highly
New PSAP
126 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Pandemic; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should identify infection control procedures Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
specifically for the pandemic influenza virus in their
emergency plans. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
127 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Pandemic; Procedures
PSAPs should identify isolation and quarantine policies and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
procedures to be used during a pandemic influenza.
WG8-3- Highly
Industry Role(s): PSAPs New PSAP
128 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Page 99 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Preparedness; Pandemic; Procedures
PSAPs should identify in pre-plans how to limit the exposure Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
of 9-1-1 staff, identify isolation and lock-down procedures
and identify on-site treatment areas for those who have Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- become infected during a pandemic influenza. Highly
New PSAP
129 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Pandemic; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should consider and evaluate how Next Generation Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
technology and the IP-enabled PSAP could allow each
community to be served by a remotely run PSAP or to more Industry Role(s): PSAPs
effectively exchange information with the public and the
WG8-3- Highly
many groups involved in a pandemic response. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster New PSAP
130 Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Hardware;
Network Design; Network Provisioning;
Pandemic; Software; Technical Support
PSAPs should develop a team that will take action during and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
following an emergency with clearly defined employee roles
and responsibilities with a chain of command for operational Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- functions and maintenance of communications infrastructure Highly
New PSAP
131 and IT services. Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Important
Preparedness; Policy; Supervision; Technical
Support
PSAPs should prepare contact information for service Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
providers, Information Technology (IT), Internet, and
telecommunications services including circuit numbers, Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
diagrams and Telecommunication Service Priority (TSP) New PSAP
132 Important
codes as appropriate. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should plan for and perform periodic testing of Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
systems (e.g. land mobile radio system, repeaters, Private
WG8-3- Branch Exchange (PBX), Local Area Network (LAN) or data Industry Role(s): PSAPs Highly
New PSAP
133 network, email) to make sure they will work in an emergency. Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness
Page 100 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should identify employees with disabilities and special Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
needs and work with these employees to develop strategies
for keeping them informed during an emergency (i.e., some Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
employees may be unable to see or hear workplace New PSAP
134 Important
announcements). Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should develop plans for evacuating employees with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
special needs (e.g., those in wheelchairs).
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
135 Important
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should consider limiting access to Information Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Technology (IT) systems to appropriate staff using
login/password and other security measures. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
136 Important
Keywords(s): Access Control; Buildings;
Business Continuity; Security Systems
PSAPs should develop a testing schedule (e.g., daily, weekly, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
or monthly) to ensure that batteries for radios, flashlights, fire
detectors and other communications and safety devices are Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
working, charged, and ready. New PSAP
137 Important
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should plan to have necessary test equipment available Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
when an emergency occurs.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
138 Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Important
Preparedness; Network Operations; Technical
Support
WG8-3- PSAPs should have test equipment that works with both Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government Highly
New PSAP
139 commercial and battery power if necessary. Important
Page 101 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Network Operations; Technical
Support
PSAPs should work with local public utilities (e.g., telephone, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
wireless phone, electric, and water) to develop a critical
infrastructure priority restoration plan for their locality. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
140 Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Important
Preparedness; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations
PSAPs should establish a procedure and develop emergency Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
contact information with local public utilities (e.g., telephone,
wireless phone, electric, and water) as well as any other party Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- necessary to support or assist in the restoration of their Highly
New PSAP
141 system. Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency Important
Preparedness; Network Interoperability; Network
Operations
PSAPs should make arrangements to meet and establish Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
relationships with key individuals in public utilities (e.g.,
telephone, wireless phone, electric, and water) before the need Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- arises. Highly
New PSAP
142 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations
PSAPs should consider establishing a three-tiered priority list Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
for assets (i.e., Mission Critical, Important, and Minor) that
will help identify the impact of losing a given asset and will Industry Role(s): PSAPs
allow them to better communicate their needs for assistance
WG8-3- Highly
when necessary. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster New PSAP
143 Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations; Policy;
Procedures
Page 102 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should identify what communications systems that Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
they can repair on their own and which systems will need
repairs by commercial vendors or telephone companies for Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- when any of their lines or services have been impacted by an Highly
New PSAP
144 emergency. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster Important
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Interoperability; Network Operations
PSAPs should develop risk modeling against first responder Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
infrastructure and response; based upon the possible or likely
disasters their jurisdiction is prone to, and upon likely severity Industry Role(s): PSAPs
of the failure, up to and including a total loss of systems.
WG8-3- Highly
Keywords(s): Access Control; Building; Business New PSAP
145 Important
Continuity; Emergency Preparedness; Network
Operations; Policy; Procedures; Security Systems;
Software
PSAPs should instruct 9-1-1 call takers to follow standard Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
operating procedures when a silent or open call is received,
and dispatch appropriate services or call the caller back per Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- PSAP protocol. Highly
New PSAP
146 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential Important
Services; Policy; Procedures; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should develop training programs that help reduce the Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
incidences of silent, inadvertent or misdialed calls in order to
help reduce the workload on the agency in dealing with that Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- type of call. Highly
New PSAP
147 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential Important
Services; Policy; Procedures; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should develop procedures for when friends or family Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
call them looking for information and provide responses that
meet local, state, federal, and/or privacy laws, with regard to Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
what information can be provided. New PSAP
148 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential
Services; Policy; Procedures; Training and
Awareness
Page 103 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should review and follow National Emergency Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Number Association (NENA) recommended standards as
applicable. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
New PSAP
149 Important
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should provide periodic training and re-training for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
call takers.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Highly
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Essential New PSAP
150 Important
Services; Human Resources; Policy; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should plan for alternate alerting procedures to the Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
public in the case of an outage of their primary alerting
procedures or system. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
151 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should obtain written commitments from Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
communication providers describing what they will provide in
a joint emergency plan (e.g., points of contact and staging Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- points).
Important New PSAP
152 Keywords(s): Business Continuity;
Documentation; Emergency Preparedness; Policy;
Procedures
PSAPs should standardize equipment and procedures at local, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
state, regional, and federal levels to facilitate mutual aid and
WG8-3- emergency backup. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Important New PSAP
153
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Hardware;
Page 104 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Network Design; Network Elements; Network
Interoperability
PSAPs should, support the National Emergency Number Remarks/Comments section:
Association (NENA) and Association of Public Safety TERT includes assistance to individual states in
Communications Officials (APCO) Telecommunicator developing programs to establish predetermined
Emergency Response Team (TERT) program when and selected trained teams who can mobilize
appropriate. quickly and deploy to assist communications
centers during disasters.
WG8-3-
Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government Important New PSAP
154
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Procedures;
Training and Awareness
PSAPs should have in place standard operating procedures for Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
all types of emergency calls to include medical emergencies.
WG8-3- Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Important New PSAP
155
Keywords(s): Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should institute procedures to allow the immediate Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
dissemination of information to call takers during a pandemic
situation or incident. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
156
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic
PSAPs should use standardized 9-1-1 protocols and data that Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
capture symptoms specific to a pandemic along with other
possible indictors (e.g., recent travel to affected areas) that Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- can assist in this process.
Important New PSAP
157 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
Page 105 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should provide employee training in incident Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
command per the requirements of the National Incident
Management System (NIMS). Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
158 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Training and
Awareness
PSAPs should focus on what may be the same, as well as Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
what is different, about influenza or other pandemic outbreaks
that will require a response unlike that needed for past Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- hazards.
Important New PSAP
159 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should incorporate recommendations of the Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Department of Homeland Security Pandemic Influenza
Preparedness, Response, and Recovery Guide for Critical Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- Infrastructure and Key Resources when planning their
Important New PSAP
160 response to influenza or other pandemic outbreaks. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Pandemic;
Policy; Procedures
PSAPs should identify policies related to paid and unpaid Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
leave and care of the families of PSAP staff during a
pandemic influenza event. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
161 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Pandemic
PSAPs should identify those with key communications and Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Information Technology (IT) components that are critical to
the continuation of essential services in an emergency. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
162 Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Human Resources; Technical
Support
Page 106 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should specify procedures to be followed in the hours Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
preceding a storm to protect computers, paper records (e.g.,
securing equipment, placing garbage bags over files, or Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- moving files upstairs) and identify which, if any, databases to
Important New PSAP
163 be backed up at the last possible moment. Keywords(s): Buildings; Business Continuity;
Disaster Recovery; Documentation; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should consider cross training between Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
communications team members to be able to compensate for
personnel shortages that may occur taking into account Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- specialized training for employees with disabilities.
Important New PSAP
164 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should conduct leader training for those responsible Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
for coordinating communications operations during major
emergency events. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
165 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness; Human
Resources; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should develop employee contact lists that include Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
office/home numbers, work/home cell numbers, and
office/personal email addresses that are continually updated Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
and maintained in paper format and at offsite location using Important New PSAP
166
removable media (e.g., USB drive). Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should develop a list of employees with disabilities, Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
giving instructions on how to contact them in an emergency
(e.g., how to send a text message to a deaf employee's pager). Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
167
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
WG8-3- PSAPs should develop a plan for how to keep employees with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Important New PSAP
168 disabilities informed in case of an emergency.
Page 107 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should establish public education campaigns and work Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
with schools, parents, or many others to promote the proper
WG8-3- use of 9-1-1. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Important New PSAP
169
Keywords(s): Policy; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should be well knowledgeable of the capabilities of Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
systems and be proficient in their use so as to maximize their
value and readiness during times of emergency. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
170
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Emergency Preparedness
PSAPs should consider including Amateur Radio (HAM) Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
radio operators in emergency operations plan and when
activated, identify where they will be assigned. It is important Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
to include all known HAM, Amateur Radio Emergency Important New PSAP
171
Service (ARES), and SHARES operating personnel in the Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
area to maximize their assistance during critical times. Recovery; Emergency Preparedness
PSAPs should consider using a number of notification Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
systems such as building-wide intercom, wireline phone
messages, email notifications, and person-to-person Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
communications for crisis management instructions (e.g., for Important New PSAP
172
full evacuation or relocation to a designated area of the Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
building). Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should ensure that notification systems (e.g., public Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
address) can function in the event of a power failure.
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
173
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Network Elements; Power
Page 108 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
PSAPs should consider when ordering a new generator Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
installation, the use of dual fuel sources, such as Natural Gas
and Diesel. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
174 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Emergency
Preparedness; Essential Services; Network Design;
Power
PSAPs should consider purchasing new radios that can be Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
powered by off-the-shelf alkaline batteries using appropriate
adapters taking into consideration they could present a Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
HAZMAT issue in disposal. Important New PSAP
175
Keywords(s): Disaster Recovery; Emergency
Preparedness; Procedures
PSAPs should consider entering into mutual aid or lend-lease Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
agreements with similar organizations both inside and outside
of their jurisdiction to enable organizations to share Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3- specialized resources rather than duplicate them in every
Important New PSAP
176 jurisdiction. Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Disaster
Recovery; Hardware; Network Interoperability;
Network Operations; Technical Support
PSAPs should conduct situational awareness surveys/analyses Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
and provide updates and reports to leadership and emergency
management teams, and, when appropriate, to the public. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
177
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Operations; Policy
PSAPs should establish post-incident analysis review Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
procedures that utilize a lessons learned approach to
emergencies following completion of all repairs. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
178
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Operations; Policy
PSAPs should add lessons learned in post incident analysis to Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
WG8-3-
future procedures Important New PSAP
179
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Page 109 of 110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council III Working Group 8
Final Report - Part 2 – March 2013
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Operations; Policy
PSAPs should consider holding a debriefing session with Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
employees or visitors with disabilities or special needs to
determine how well emergency procedures worked for them Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
and what, if anything can be improved. Important New PSAP
180
Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Network
Operations; Policy
PSAPs should develop procedures regarding internet access Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
that are in line with network and system security and access
of information over the internet. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
181 Keywords(s): Business Continuity; Cyber
Security; Human Resources; Policy; Security
Systems
PSAPs should consider offering tours of their PSAP or Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
location to help train children/students/the public about how
WG8-3- 9-1-1 calls are handled. Industry Role(s): PSAPs
Important New PSAP
182
Keywords(s): Policy; Training and Awareness
PSAPs should maintain training records for their staff. Network Types(s): 9-1-1 Agencies; Government
Industry Role(s): PSAPs
WG8-3-
Important New PSAP
183
Keywords(s): Human Resources; Policy;
Training and Awareness
Page 110 of 110
