PDF Content from https://www.fcc.gov/sites/default/files/CSRIC5-WG5-FinalReport031517.pdf:
MARCH 2017 WORKING GROUP 5: CYBER SECURITY INFORMATION SHARING
FINAL REPORTThe Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .............................................................................................................................. 3
2. WORKING GROUP MEMBERS .................................................................................................................... 4
3. OBJECTIVE ................................................................................................................................................. 4
4. SCOPE ........................................................................................................................................................ 4
5. USE CASES ................................................................................................................................................. 5
6. BARRIERS TO INFORMATIONS SHARING ................................................................................................. 13
7. INFORMATION SHARING TRUST POOLS .................................................................................................. 19
8. CONDUITS FOR INFORMATION SHARING ............................................................................................... 25
9. RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................................................. 30
APPENDIX A Private – Government – Private Use Cases ....................................................................... 31
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Working Group 5 (WG 5), Cybersecurity Information Sharing, was tasked with developing
recommendations to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC or the Commission) to
encourage sharing of cybersecurity information between companies in the communications sector.
This report represents the culmination of multiple work streams highlighting the robust level of
information sharing that is already underway within the sector and between industry and
government. As illustrated in this document the Communications Sector is uniquely situated given
our integrated role with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) at the National Coordinating
Center (NCC) which serves as the Communications Information Sharing and Analysis Center
(Comms-ISAC). Much of the material presented here outlines how the industry functions today,
highlights the types of sharing that occurs and brings to light the extensive level of private to private
sharing within the industry and concludes with a series of recommendations building on this
foundation to improve sharing throughout the sector.
In order to facilitate the development of this report the Working Group completed five interim
reports in the following areas: (1) a Notional Diagram illustrating information sharing within the
sector, (2) information sharing use cases, (3) barriers to information sharing, (4) trust pools, and (5)
a discussion of conduits or means to share information within the sector. This report summarizes
each of those items and then concludes with recommendations for both the FCC and the sector.
The Notional Diagram – Communications Sector Information Sharing (included on page 7) illustrates
the various means by which the sector shares information today. This diagram delineates
information sharing (1) among private sector partners and (2) between the private sector and
government entities. The use cases then build upon this by providing examples of information in
each of these categories. For private to private information sharing, the working group describes a
categorization model based upon two primary factors: (1) the formality of the relationship, and (2)
the structure of the data, and use cases for each of the four resulting categories. For private to
government and government to private information sharing, ten use cases provide representative
and diverse examples of how the communications private sector shares with government to address
cyber threats.
In the next section, the working group goes on to discuss various barriers to information sharing
including organizational, technical, operational, financial, and legal/policy issues impacting
information sharing. The working group also considered unique challenges for small and midsized
communications companies (SMBs) sharing information in the private and public realms. In the
“Information Sharing Trust Pools,” section, the working group identified optimal information sharing
“Trust Pools” to inform the working group’s recommendations to the Commission. The intent of this
effort was to identify, assess, analyze, and develop recommendations for how industry engages in
information sharing with other trusted entities. Finally, the working group discusses Conduits for
Information Sharing, described as identifying and assessing structures and platforms for the
communications sector stakeholders to routinely share cybersecurity information (threat indicators,
warnings, anomalous indicators, and post-incident information).
The working group’s proposed recommendations are based on facts and conclusions drawn from
each of the sections discussed above. These recommendations include the following:
• The FCC should acknowledge the breadth and depth of cyber-threat information sharing that
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
currently takes place between and among industry and government entities, and recognize that
DHS is leading in government information sharing with the private sector. To the extent the FCC
wants to participate in information sharing it should do so in the context of the broader efforts
organized by DHS and not duplicate efforts within the FCC.
• Industry should continue its efforts to conduct and expand on the current pilot that it has
underway regarding information sharing using STIX/TAXII, and determine if these protocols meet
the needs of communications sector. Industry should also explore the opportunities and
challenges related to sector-wide operational use of DHS’ Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) portal.
• Industry should enhance the Communications ISAC by developing a hosted, private website on
which government entities, industry partners, and stakeholders representing SMBs may register to
access a cybersecurity resource repository and message board. At the same time, the ISAC should
consider the best means to encourage international involvement in information-sharing processes
balanced against the challenges outlined in this document.
• The public and the private sector should continue to work together to develop, promote, and
enhance cybersecurity education and awareness within the sector, including by educating SMBs
regarding the depth and breadth of existing venues that offer cyber-threat information-sharing
opportunities.
• The government should explore a grant program to provide funding to SMBs so that they may
obtain or develop resources necessary to robustly participate in the cybersecurity information
sharing ecosystem.
• There is currently a considerable amount of threat intelligence gathering and client-tailored
information sharing provided on a proprietary basis by commercial entities. Policy makers should
continue to encourage and support such sharing. Proprietary information sharing tools and
managed security services that incorporate this information provide a reliably agile, effective, and
innovative mechanism to both heighten awareness of cyber threats and tactics and can play a role
in mitigating attacks.
2. WORKING GROUP MEMBERS
Name Company Name (cont.) Company (cont.)
Chris Boyer (Co-Chair) AT&T Robert Gessner MCTV
Rod Rasmussen (Co-Chair) Infoblox Mark Hoffer MCTV
Greg Intoccia (FCC Liaison) FCC Bill Mertka Motorola (ATIS)
Vern Mosley (FCC Liaison) FCC Larry Walke NAB
Martin Dolly AT&T (ATIS) Loretta Polk NCTA
Rosemary Leffler AT&T Matt Tooley NCTA
Trace Hollifield Bright House Networks Dr. Donald H. Sebastian NJ Institute of Tech
Kathryn Condello CenturyLink Frank Menzer NOAA
Paul Diamond CenturyLink Kathy Whitbeck Nsight
Mary Haynes Charter Communications Jesse Ward NTCA
John Kelly Comcast Cable Kazu Gomi NTT America
Jorge Nieves Comcast Cable Shinichi Yokohama NTT America
Paul Fournier Comcast Cable Michael Brown RSA
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Rudy Brioche Comcast Cable Richard Perlotto II Shadowserver
Kevin Kastor Consolidated Jason Jenkins SilverStar
Jemin Thakkar Cox Communications Jeff England SilverStar
Matt Carothers Cox Communications Allison Growney Sprint
John Marinho CTIA Brian Scarpelli TIA
Chris Alexander DHS Joe Viens (Co-Chair Sub-Group Charter Communications
1 Private to Government
Sharing)
John O'Connor DHS (Co-Chair Sub-Group 1 Chris R. Roosenraad (Chair Charter Communications
Private to Government Sub-Group 2 Private to Private
Sharing) Sharing)
Alexander Gerdenitsch Echostar Arthur “Trey” Jackson T-Mobile
Jennifer Manner Echostar Cindy Carson T-Mobile
David Colberg EMC Harold Salters T-Mobile
Daniel Cashman FairPoint Communications Howard Brown Tulalip Data Services
Carlos Carrillo FireEye Robert Mayer US Telecom
Thomas M. MacLellan FireEye Eric Osterweil Verisign
Tony Cole FireEye Shawn Wilson Verisign
Dave Keech Frontier Nneka Chiazor Verizon
Ethan Lucarelli Iridium (Wiley Rein) Dorothy A. Spears-Dean VITA
Michael O'Reirdan MAAWG Greg Lucak Windstream
Greg Holzapfel Sprint Stephen Swanson WOW, Inc.
Myrna Wilson DHS (Support for Sub-group 1
Private-Government Sharing,
Editor/Drafter for reports)
3. OBJECTIVE
CSRIC Working Group 5 was tasked with reviewing and making recommendations on the state of
cybersecurity information sharing within the communications industry. As stated in the working
group description, “in order to improve the communication sector’s ability to identify, protect,
detect, respond, and recover from cyber-attacks, Working Group 5 will develop recommendations
to the Council to encourage sharing of cybersecurity information between companies in the
communications sector.”
The working group was further instructed to build upon the CSRIC Working Group 4 efforts by
developing recommendations on how communications companies can improve information sharing
about cyber risks to communications critical infrastructure within the private sector. The
description further states that, to develop the recommendations, WG5 will organize into four study
efforts: (1) Use Cases, (2) Information Sharing Barriers, (3) Information Sharing “Trust Pools,” and
(4) Conduits for Information Sharing.
4. SCOPE
As noted in the working group description, the primary focus on the working group’s efforts is to
develop guidance on how communications companies can effectively share cyber risk information
pertinent to communications critical infrastructure within the private sector. Thus the scope of
this effort is centered on critical infrastructure which was defined by each of the five sub-sectors -
- wireline, wireless, cable, satellite, and broadcast -- in 2015 in the final CSRIC Working Group 4
report. In that report, critical infrastructure was defined consistent with Executive Order 13636,
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
which defines critical infrastructure as “systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to
the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a
debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any
combination of those matters.”
As such, the type of information in scope for this report is information relevant to ensuring the
availability, reliability, resiliency, and integrity of each segment’s critical infrastructure with their
respective communications networks rather than the entirety of their end-to-end network paths.
However, given the wide variety of information sharing that is currently underway in the industry,
the use cases are focused on providing a holistic picture of how information sharing is conducted
today so that the working group could assess those models or examples to identify both barriers
and recommendations related to securing critical infrastructure.
5. USE CASES
Baseline Communications for Information Sharing
The first step taken by the working group was to develop a baseline diagram to reflect the level of
information sharing currently underway in the sector. The diagram below was presented at the
December 2015 CSRIC meeting and is intended to provide this baseline view. As illustrated, there
are a variety of groups that the industry is sharing with today from trusted peers and commercial
partners, government agencies under contract, law enforcement, industry peers as part of the
sector policy and planning process, the DHS via the National Coordinating Center and the National
Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) and other affiliated organizations
like US-CERT, public and private partners, and finally by ISPs for their own internal use and to
protect customers. The type of information also will vary, as depicted by the various colors in the
diagram. For example, information about threats to ISPs’ own networks is generally shared, to the
extent an individual ISP or sector member is willing to share this information, with a variety of
trusted peers and commercial partners, formal and informal peer organizations and with
commercial partners as is reflected in the box in the far upper left corner of the diagram. This
information also may, at the ISP’s discretion, be provided to other entities such as DHS. Because
this information is specifically about an attack on ISP infrastructure itself, it raises fewer concerns
than, for example, information directly related to a customer.
Customer information is generally not shared within industry due to a variety of concerns related to
customer privacy, but can be used with the impacted customer directly (reflected by the red line) to aid
them in addressing a cyber incident. Typically, this occurs in the form of managed security services
provided to the customer itself. It is important to draw a distinction between customer information and
network infrastructure information given the privacy and business considerations that must be
considered. For these reasons the primary focus within industry is on sharing information with respect
to attacks on ISP core network infrastructure which is consistent with the mission of this working group.
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Other examples include sharing with law enforcement. In this case, as noted in the diagram, the
example is intended to cover situations in which the ISP may be the victim of an attack; e.g., a fraud case
etc., and information about that attack needs to be shared with law enforcement as part of a criminal
investigation. It is not intended to indicate that customer information would be shared with law
enforcement. While enactment of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act has helped to clear away
some of the legal underbrush that inhibited sharing under a variety of circumstances, there are still a
variety of privacy related statutes that are implicated by a prospective sharing of customer information
including, among others, the FCC’s CPNI rules, and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA)
that must be analyzed by counsel prior to sharing that form of information today. Also there are a
myriad of business reasons such as contractual limitations that would prevent ISPs, notwithstanding
legal concerns, from sharing this information. For these reasons most of the working group’s focus here
is on sharing infrastructure related information.
Likewise, pursuant to government contracts some ISPs may share information with government agencies
about the agencies’ own network traffic that may be monitored by an ISP as part of services that they
provide to the Federal government. Finally, information shared with public and private sector partners,
such as the FCC or other government entities, as noted on the diagram, is less about cyber threat
indicators and more general information about how ISPs are designing and implementing their
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
cybersecurity risk management programs.
Based upon the diagram, the working group determined that there are in effect two fundamental
buckets of use cases that would accurately reflect the work being done in the industry: (1) private to
private sharing encompassing the bulk of the upper left quadrant of the diagram, and (2) private to
government and government to private information sharing reflected predominantly by the box
associated with the DHS information sharing process and other government related activities.
Accordingly, the working group broke into two sub-groups focused on developing use cases in each
category.
5.1 Private to Private Sharing
The first subgroup was chartered to describe the various forms and methods of private to private
sharing. The conclusions of the group included: that there are literally dozens of examples; that the
group wanted to avoid using names, in particular as it relates to some peer groups that may not wish to
be named in a public document and/or or to avoid any potential indication of a vendor preference; that
these relationships can change relatively quickly; and that there are many ways to categorize the
private to private sharing relationships. Finally, the sub-group observed that for many smaller sized
carriers and participants in the communications sector, information sharing today is one- way (e.g.,
carriers are consumers of information).
Thus it was recommended that an objective of the working group is to make it easier for all sizes of
service providers to participate more robustly. The sub-group settled on a categorization model based
upon two primary factors: (1) the formality of the relationship that can be either formal such as a
contractual relationship or informal, which could include sharing via personal relationships or open
sourced sharing, and (2) the structure of the data between structured, such as data feeds, anti-spam,
anti-virus, machine readable feeds of data and unstructured such as mailing lists, phone calls,
conferences, formal presentations, hallway conversations etc. aimed at humans. The group then
proceeded to develop the following quadrant chart to illustrate examples of each of these categories.
As noted from the diagram there are multiple examples within each quadrant from formal
unstructured, formal structured, informal unstructured, and informal structured. The sub-group then
proceeded to develop a model use case for each of these quadrants without focusing on the specifics
of any one entity or relationship. The working group elected to develop a standard template for the
use cases that includes a description, discussion of the ISP and entity relationship, the relationship
type, discussion of the information that is shared, benefits of information sharing, preliminary
discussion of the gaps in information and process, and preliminary discussion of barriers and
challenges. Each of those use cases is listed below.
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
5.1.1 Formal Structured
ISP & Entity Relationship Formal, structured, information sharing between two entities with a
defined relationship, such as a legal agreement. This may be a commercial
or non-commercial agreement.
Relationship Type Formal - structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Typically, this involves sharing from an entity to an ISP,
e.g. from a vendor to a customer, but other arrangements may exist as
well. For instance, the ISP may share data rather than money.
Content & Value: Content is machine-readable IOCs. The format may be
as simple as CSV files delivered over HTTPS, or it may be as complex as
STIX delivered over TAXII.
Timeliness: This may be anything from real time in the case of automated
detection systems or sinkholes to weeks delayed in the case of manual
investigation.
Sharing Process: The process varies depending on the source of the data
and the technology they have chosen.
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Benefits of Information Compromises prevented or at least identified. Vulnerabilities
Sharing revealed, potentially prior to exploitation.
Vendors can tailor information feeds to the risks and
vulnerabilities that predominate for a ISP customer.
Can be used for victim notification in the case where a vendor sends an ISP
lists of compromised customer IPs.
Gaps in Information & Every vendor has a different format for their data and a different
Process method of delivery.
Every source requires custom integration.
Quality of data varies, and there is no standard to assess that
quality.
Barriers & Challenges Vendors can be prohibitively expensive in some instances. Integration is
costly and time consuming.
Contextual data is often missing, e.g., an IP is listed as bad, but there’s no
further information as to why it is bad or how an ISP can determine
whether a detection is a false positive.
5.1.2 Formal Unstructured
ISP & Entity Relationship Informal conversations between the SP and a vendors/partners.
Content may be derived from conversations or simple
communications such as email. Often the content comes in the form
of a formal written report.
Relationship Type Formal - unstructured
Information that is Shared To whom: The data is almost always shared from the
vendor/partner to the SP.
Content & Value: Content may be derived from conversations or simple
communications such as email, or be contained within a larger report or
analysis
Timeliness: This may be either real time (conversations) or near real time
(email).
Sharing Process: The delivery method will vary based on the relationship of
the ISP and the source in addition to the nature of the data being shared.
The higher the degree of sensitivity the more likely that the sharing
method will be verbal. The less sensitive the data the more likely that it
will be shared via email or other electronic means.
Benefits of Information Compromises prevented or at least identified. Vulnerabilities revealed,
Sharing potentially prior to exploitation. SP – SP conversations often lead to
enhanced understanding of threats as they relate to the SP environment.
Heightened awareness. Information often comes in the form of a
warning “we’ve seen this threat elsewhere” or a post-mortem “here is
what we determined happened to you”.
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Gaps in Information & There is no formal process. The nature of this sharing is ad hoc.
Process Can sometimes arise from vendors seeking to demonstrate value
of their service. Often it is best used for awareness and not as an
input for automated tools.
Barriers & Challenges Validating the data is a major concern. Information shared in conversation
and email can be highly subjective. SPs will often treat this information as
useful context but not make decisions based upon it.
5.1.3 Informal Structured
ISP & Entity Relationship Informal, structured, information sharing between two entities with no
defined relationship
Relationship Type Informal - structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Typically, this involves the service provider downloading
information from a publicly available source. There is almost never data
sharing back.
Content & Value: Content is machine-readable IOCs. The format may be
as simple as CSV files delivered over HTTPS, or it may be as complex as
STIX delivered over TAXII.
Timeliness: This may be anything from real time in the case of automated
detection systems or sinkholes to weeks delayed in the case of manual
investigation.
Sharing Process: The process varies depending on the source of the data
and the technology they have chosen.
Benefits of Information Compromises prevented or at least identified. Vulnerabilities
Sharing revealed, potentially prior to exploitation. Effective for
conveying ecosystem-wide threats.
Can be used for victim notification in the case where a vendor sends an ISP
lists of compromised customer IPs.
Gaps in Information & Every source has a different format for their data and a different
Process method of delivery.
Every source requires custom integration.
Quality of data varies, and a sense of “you get what you pay for”.
Barriers & Challenges Lack of contract means data is by default provided best effort
Integration is costly and time consuming.
Contextual data is often missing. E.g. an IP is listed as bad, but there’s
no further information as to why it is bad or how a SP can determine
whether a detection is a false positive.
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
5.1.4 Informal Unstructured
ISP & Entity Relationship Informal, unstructured, information sharing between two entities with a
casual, undefined relationship.
Relationship Type Informal - unstructured
Information that is Shared To whom: This may involve SP – SP, SP – customer and/or SP to
vendors/partners.
Content & Value: Content may be derived from conversations or simple
communications such as email.
Timeliness: This may be either real time (conversations) or near real time
(email).
Sharing Process: The delivery method will vary based on the relationship of
the ISP and the source in addition to the nature of the data being shared.
The higher the degree of sensitivity the more likely that the sharing
method will be verbal. The less sensitive the data the more likely that it will
be shared via email or other electronic means.
Benefits of Information Compromises prevented or at least identified. Vulnerabilities revealed,
Sharing potentially prior to exploitation. SP – SP conversations often lead to
enhanced understanding of threats as they relate to the SP
environment. Heightened awareness.
Gaps in Information & There is no formal process. The nature of this sharing is ad hoc. Often it is
Process best used for awareness and not as an input for automated tools. Quality
of data varies, and there is no standard to assess that quality.
Barriers & Challenges Validating the data is a major concern. Information shared in conversation
and email can be highly subjective. SPs will often treat this information as
useful context but not make decisions based upon it.
5.2 Private/Government Sharing
Sub-group 2 was tasked with developing use cases for private to government and government to
private sharing. The subgroup developed several use cases to provide examples of how the
communications sector shares with government to address cyber threats. The list of use cases
includes the following. Each of these use cases is provided in Appendix A to this document. It should
be noted that these example use cases are not intended to be all inclusive but to cover a range of
examples raised by both the industry and the FCC during the working group.
EAS Service Disruption
Data Breach Investigative Report
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Foreign Government to U.S. Industry
TDOS Government and Industry Use Case
Heartbleed
NCFTA Government and Industry Use Case
Government to Industry Solar Flares
Hacktivist Threats to Law Enforcement and Public Officials
Qakbot Botnet
Social Engineering
6. BARRIERS TO INFORMATION SHARING
6.1 Organizational Challenges
A critical organizational challenge facing the communications sector is the wide variety of private,
public, public-private, and international groups, entities, and arrangements devoted to cyber threat
information sharing. The existing cyber threat information sharing landscape, as illustrated below, is
complex and, therefore, may be challenging to navigate, especially for those previously unfamiliar with
the breadth and depth of entities noted below. Further, the proliferation of sharing entities and
arrangements threatens to dilute resources and expertise through redundant or conflicting activities
and objectives. Several communications operators and trade associations are part of existing
information sharing trust pools convened in coordination with the Federal government including the
Communications-ISAC, which is coordinated by DHS via the NCC. The Communications-ISAC is an
established forum for gathering and exchanging information on vulnerabilities, threats, intrusions, and
anomalies. Sector representatives also are involved in the development of – and will be working with –
the new Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAOs) that will emerge in connection with
effectuation of President Obama’s 2015 Executive Order on information sharing.
Communications companies also will be working with the DHS AIS portal, which is designed to facilitate
real-time sharing of cyber threat indicators with DHS’s NCCIC. The Cybersecurity Information Sharing
Act of 2015 (CISA) also designates the NCCIC itself as a principal Federal civilian interface for multi-
directional and cross-sector information sharing related to cybersecurity risks, incidents, analysis, and
warnings. Sector companies also work with the Hunt and Incident Response Team (HIRT), the
computer emergency readiness team, which is part of NCCIC. Thus, navigating the various DHS entities
involved in information-sharing activities can be a challenge, due to the complexity of that agency’s
organizational structure and the potential for overlapping responsibilities.
Outside of DHS, communications companies are the driving force behind a variety of information
sharing activities. Companies also may be involved with the FBI-National Cybersecurity Industry Joint
Task Force (NCI-JTF) and InfraGuard, which are involved in botnet takedowns, repelling DDOS attacks
and addressing other cyber threats. In addition to these entities, some communications companies
may enter into arrangements with government agencies for the receipt and exchange of cybersecurity
data, including threat vectors, attack signatures, anomalies, incursion patterns and other threat-related
information. State and regional sharing entities also are beginning to emerge, with more such
organizations anticipated following initial implementation of the ISAO Executive Order. In the wake of
the laudable recognition of the value, benefits and importance of cybersecurity information sharing by
legislators and policy-makers, a key objective going forward will be to streamline the mechanisms and
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
venues for sharing and enhance coordination and cooperation among the various Federal, State and
regional entities involved in information sharing to promote efficient and effective sharing activities.
These existing trust pools should also be publicized across the sector so that organizations of all sizes
are aware and informed of the opportunity to participate.
Regarding existing private-to-private trust pools, industry members may be involved in several cross-
sector and multilateral organizations that exchange information on cybersecurity threats and issues,
including the North American Network Operators’ Group (NANOG), the Domain Name System
Operations Analysis and Research Center (DNSOARC), and the Messaging, Malware and Mobile Anti-
Abuse Working Group (M3AAWG). Sector companies also enter into contractual arrangements with
third-party security vendors for the receipt of threat data and tactical response information.
However, organizational impediments generally continue to exist in the private-to-private venue. Trust
relationships have traditionally formed the basis for information sharing, but require resources to build
and maintain. Sharing is often conducted on the basis of personal relationships built out of industry
networks and at events such as NANOG and M3AAWG. However, these events may not be widely
publicized to communications sector companies. As such, some organizations, and in particular, SMBs
may not be aware of these events, may not be invited to attend, and/or may not have the resources to
participate. Continued development and use of ISAOs and ISACs may alleviate some of these
organizational barriers, particularly for SMBs.
The distribution of classified information from government to private sector partners also may affect
the quality of information shared between private entities. Access to classified information by cleared
individuals may affect the scope and conditions in implementing operational activities. By the same
token, not having knowledge of and access to classified information may have an effect on business
activities. Classified information should be downgraded and distributed where possible. Information
sharing rules between and amongst organizations should consider the trustworthiness of the recipient,
the sensitivity of the shared information, and the potential impact of sharing (or not sharing) types of
information.
Organizational impediments are most apparent in the context of international sharing. Many countries
have Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) and Computer Security Incident Response Teams
(CSIRTs) that vary in terms of procedural conformity, technology sophistication, financial support, and
knowledgeable human resources, all of which impact domestic and international collaborative
capabilities. Different governments also have different classifying mechanisms for sensitive
information that also impact and prevent sharing among international response teams. DHS also has
observed in the past that the amount and quality of information that come from CERTs is limited and
often more robust between countries with similar cultures and language. Moreover, international
information sharing does not have the same historical evolution as domestic sharing within the U.S.
Establishing trust within international groups should be emphasized and supported.
In addition to the technical, financial, operational, and legal barriers mentioned above, sharing
internationally gives rise to additional impediments where transactions can involve multiple
governments and industries with different time zones, sets of laws, norms, languages, cultures,
motivations, and competence. In recent years a combination of factors has increased awareness and
concerns about information sharing generally. Studies of multi-country corporate environments have
identified various social norms that impact the usefulness of information sharing. In some instances,
for example, there is hesitance to share information about threats and vulnerabilities because such
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
information may be associated with weakness or shame. Sharing weaknesses or vulnerabilities in some
countries may give rise to regulatory or other actions by governments more than in others.
Given the complexities of international sharing mechanisms and legal protections, industry should
engage with international partners verbally and in person to continue to build trust relationships in a
similar way that trust relationships have evolved organically over time in the United States.
6.2 Operational Barriers
The results of information sharing initiatives will be highly dependent on the effectiveness of
implementation from an operational standpoint. Operational barriers can vary based on the size of an
organization. Filtering the many sources of threat intelligence, validating what is applicable, and then
defining the priority to implement can be complex and time consuming. This is especially pertinent for
SMBs, which face cybersecurity workforce challenges. For instance, service providers located in rural
and remote regions often have difficulty attracting and retaining employees, especially those with
much-needed technical expertise. Further, at small company employees often wear many different
hats, and as such, the company may suffer from a lack of internal resources with the time and technical
skill sets required to contribute to the larger information-sharing environment. In addition, an
operator may lack sufficient financial support to fully engage in the more formal or structured
categories or mechanics of info sharing. Further, SMBs may not be aware of the existence of more
formal information sharing venues, especially those that are operated by the private sector and
accessed via exclusive invitation.
For larger and more complex organizations, changes in operations can take time and slow down the
information sharing process. Any change to an operational process generally requires a well-defined
process and procedure that must be communicated to all parties, and must be related to performance
goals with measurable results. The process for changing operational procedures must be more
dynamic to lessen the impact on timely information sharing. Production of refined, reliable
intelligence also takes time and, while reliable intelligence developed over time can be useful in
forensic efforts, the amount of time sometimes required hinders usefulness in live or proactive
protection efforts. Refining intelligence too hastily, however, can result in unreliable or unusable
intelligence. Striking the right balance is essential.
6.3 Technical Barriers
Technical barriers to cyber threat information sharing include capacity, accuracy, quality, timeliness,
and issues resulting from a lack of consistent, standard formats and accepted nomenclature that should
be used to share information. The most cited technical impediment to sharing could be broadly
characterized as a lack of “standardization” of formats and terminology. That is, while there are a wide
array of formats/protocols/schemas for sharing, there is no agreed upon terminology for malware
across organizations, and there is no universal schema for incident progress. The lack of a standardized
information format, for example, means shared data is integrated on an ad-hoc, customized basis,
which necessarily takes time and resources, and may cause data quality issues.
Similarly, rectifying differing terminology for the same piece of information as it is shared causes
confusion, adds time, and lessens the effectiveness of information sharing. Wide variances in
formatting standards, and terminology amongst organizations could render a perfect organizational
structure for exchanging information useless. Lack of context and accuracy for indicators also impede
sharing. For example, an indicator may be marked “suspicious,” but only the originator knows why,
which lessens the usefulness to the information recipient. Similarly, lack of information about the
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
origin of shared information leads to testing, filtering, or potentially dropping information by the
recipient.
Quality of data and relevance to use cases also can be an impediment to fruitful information sharing.
Often data is shared formally initially, but follow up occurs informally and becomes more subjective,
thereby deteriorating the data validating process. Additionally, as the pool of participants grows in the
information sharing process, trust declines and information may become more generic. This limits the
quality of information shared. More detailed, validated data is shared among members within the same
sector when the information is shared through a dedicated portal. Those who are not members of the
sector or who don’t have access to the portal may receive information that is generalized, or may
receive no information at all.
The timeliness, scale or capacity, and integration of the information into various security tools also
create technical challenges. Production of refined intelligence can take time and may not enable real
time protection. On the other end of the spectrum, quickly produced intelligence can be fraught with
peril leading to false positives and other negative outcomes. Also there are scaling challenges as
information is integrated into security tools. At scale, a firewall can be overwhelmed with rules to
block literally thousands of IP addresses. Meanwhile the collective set of botnets has millions of IP
addresses they cycle through daily. Finally integrating the data into an intrusion detection system or
firewall can create additional challenges and further development work.
It is important to emphasize that the working group does not consider top-down regulation or
government-mandated technical standards as the solution to any of the technical constraints identified
here. Cyber threat information sharing is still in its infancy. Standards, tools, protocols, and best
practices recommendations are being discussed, developed, and are starting to be implemented. As
legislators and policy-makers have recognized repeatedly, this is not an area conducive to backward-
looking, static, one-size-fits-all prescriptive regulation. Additionally, metrics should not be imposed by
policy-makers with the intention of providing a relative measure of information sharing effectiveness.
Such metrics are not likely to be accurate or effective. The technical issues and constraints that
companies will face will continue to change and evolve in accordance with new technological
developments and the constantly-changing threat landscape, and it is vital that the sector be afforded
the necessary flexibility and agility to adapt to these changes. The working group firmly believes that
the public-private partnership and cross-sector initiatives and coordination aimed at generating
industry-driven solutions to the technical challenges to sharing continues to be the best way to address
those challenges.
6.4 Consumer/Market Considerations
Consumer concerns about where their information is being stored and with whom it is being shared are
potential barriers to information sharing. Transparency about protections for consumer information
within an organization’s system as well as insight into use of information after it leaves the system is
important to managing consumer expectations and allaying fears about information sharing. Not only
is it necessary It will become increasingly important for organizations to identify and protect consumer
information in accordance with applicable law and consumer expectations, but it is becoming
increasingly important as well as to educate consumers about protections related to cyber threat
information sharing. Government support for the protections taken by industry also will be important
to reassuring consumers. Consumer understanding of, and confidence in, the importance of sharing
and the role that it plays in securing their data is a key factor in fostering a frictionless and robust
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
sharing environment.
6.5 Financial Barriers
Financial disincentives to information sharing exist in all information sharing venues. Building requisite
sharing infrastructure, buying a data feed, and dedicating human resources are all cost centers.
Moreover, with structured data there are costs affiliated with receiving and analyzing data in multiple
formats. Financial resource restraints are most acute for SMBs within the communications sector,
which are often challenged by limited resources including access to financial capital, operational
manpower, technical expertise, management buy-in, and other tools and resources needed to
effectively participate in sharing venues. At base, lack of sufficient monetary resources negatively
impacts a company’s ability to participate within both public and private information sharing trust
pools. However, the solution to these issues is not to discourage commercially-available threat
intelligence capabilities and proprietary information sharing tools and services, since the existence of
such offerings often provides the most up-to-date information and facilitates reaching the most agile
solutions to real-time threats and vulnerabilities. Threat intelligence and threat analysis are properly
viewed as business resources that are the product of recurring investment and training, and preserving
the incentive to invest in such capabilities is critical to the overall health of the ecosystem.
6.6 Legal/Policy Considerations
In the past there were a variety of legal concerns surrounding cyber threat information sharing, as
cybersecurity was a relatively undefined area with respect to U.S. law. For example, the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), a criminal statute governing the conduct of electronic surveillance,
contains several exceptions that are useful when conducting cybersecurity operations. While the
exceptions permit carriers to monitor their own communications networks for the “protection of the
rights or property of the provider,” among other things, there were questions about whether that
exception protected not only imminent or actual threats to a carrier’s network, but also sharing
activities designed to protect the ecosystem. Further, the overall nature of ECPA is to restrict sharing
and in many cases the use of information is dependent upon customer consent, which could in some
circumstances limit real time information sharing.
The potential for civil liability remains an impediment for information sharing in the private to private,
and private to government cyber threat information sharing venues. Lack of legal clarity on the civil
front, and the potential for criminal sanctions have, in the past, led companies to take a conservative
approach to information sharing. Uncertainty, and the not infrequent instances in which the
permissibility of sharing necessitates protracted legal analysis, also hampers companies’ ability to
respond in real time. The enactment of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (CISA),
which represented Congress’ attempt to develop a clear legal framework to information sharing, was
intended to address several these issues.
Joint guidance from the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission issued in 2014, the
“Antitrust Policy Statement on Sharing of Cybersecurity Information,” was intended to address
potential concerns over antitrust violations because of cybersecurity information sharing, recognizing
that private parties play an important role in preventing cyberattacks and in sharing information. In
addition, contractual provisions in contracts with third-party security and tool vendors that affect
sharing of certain information may impede the quality and timeliness of threat information sharing
regardless of a generally permissive legal or policy environment.
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Further, the impact of new service arrangements and offerings for end users of communications
services may warrant additional legal review. As customers consume broadband services and
capabilities offered in a managed service environment, additional legal review may be necessary to
assess whether an ISP can or should share security-related information they glean from third-party
security specialists and vendors, other service providers, and end users themselves – consistent with all
applicable legal obligations. The relief provided by CISA from legal liability concerns under certain
circumstances is not absolute or unqualified. Thus, the ongoing potential for conflict between
communications service provider privacy obligations and security duties remains a serious potential
impediment to robust sharing, particularly as the kind of packet metadata that have long been at the
core of the work and sharing undertaken by network engineers and security specialists begins to fall
under the rubric of privacy regimes. This potential impediment arises not only in connection with real-
time sharing, but also with respect to threat intelligence sharing and research on attack vectors,
defense tools, and remediation measures.
Indeed, an emerging challenge for communications companies engaged in information sharing
activities is the potential for conflict between the FCC’s broadband privacy rules NPRM and CISA.
While the Commission’s broadband privacy Order clarified that any sharing of information permitted
under CISA would not be restricted by its broadband privacy rules, those rules constrain use and
sharing of IP addresses, device identifiers, and other customer and device-related metadata that the
Justice Department guidance makes clear are expected to be shared regularly under CISA. Companies
may share cyber threat indicators for a “cybersecurity purpose” under CISA. However, under the FCC’s
proposal, sharing of cyber threat indicators that include customer proprietary network information
(CPNI) – and the FCC defines commonly shared cyber threat data elements such as IP addresses and
domain information as CPNI – would be subject to potential post-hoc liability assessments of whether
the disclosure of such CPNI was “reasonably necessary” to protect against a threat. This more stringent
standard could chill beneficial sharing activity, particularly with respect to sharing of threat intelligence
and research related to threat vectors, attack strategies, and the efficacy of defensive measures.
Further CISA does not directly and specifically address potential common law risks associated with
actions (or inactions) in response to receiving (or not receiving) shared cyber threat information.
Moreover, the authorization to share under CISA carries with it the obligation to remove personal
information not directly related to a cyber threat, which inevitably introduces delay into the process, as
well as uncertainty since the concept of “personal information” can vary among different privacy
regimes applicable to different industry sectors. And there remains considerable uncertainty and risk
with respect to the sharing of defensive measures under CISA, due to the removal of liability protection
for any shared defensive measure that causes harm to another network or data on such other network.
Further, there are also concerns about the extent to which CISA’s liability protections extend to sharing
relationships with the government other than via AIS or the NCCIC web and email portals. Additional
potential impediments also include the lack of human resources that may be needed to adequately
balance privacy protections with the need for effective, timely sharing. Namely, that it may take more
manual “eyes-on” analysis to effectively balance privacy protection concerns and effective and timely
information sharing. In addition, development of required policies and procedures may lag as the size
of the sharing community grows.
Legal barriers also exist in the international information sharing venue where the legal framework
varies from state to state. Such barriers include freedom of information laws, anti-trust rules,
restrictions on cross-border data flows and in-country data retention, and criminal jurisdiction and
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
coordination. Diverse information classification regimes further complicate inter-government sharing,
and re-sharing. Currently, the complex and uncertain legal regime slows down sharing arrangements
to the point where real time sharing internationally is not possible. Harmonization of information
sharing laws and further development of international liability protections are also desirable to build
confidence in international sharing venues and to facilitate cyber threat information sharing across
international borders. In the absence of legal harmonization, industry should evaluate and dialogue
with various international entities to determine how best to work within their frameworks to share
cyber threat information internationally.
7. Information Sharing Trust Pools
7.1 Definition
Information sharing trust pools are appropriately scoped groups based on communications sector
needs and capabilities within the cybersecurity community who may identify, assess, analyze, and/or
develop recommendations and potentially take action to share information. Information sharing trust
pools encourage and enable the sharing of cybersecurity information across the communications sector
to all stakeholders necessary to successfully execute the “protect, detect, respond, and recover”
functions of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. 

7.2 Characteristics of Information Sharing Trust Pools
Information sharing trust pools come in a variety of sizes for a variety of missions, use multiple types of
operational strategies and cover an undetermined length of time. It should be noted that how they
perform or even unite for a purpose also varies. And, while all types have in common the need to share
information in a trustworthy manner, they cannot be fit into a mold where one size of trust pool fits all
requirements. Some of the key characteristics of trust pools are as follows.
 Participants define trust to include confidentiality, meaning that information is shared within a
specific environment or regime responsibly, without leakage or retribution, and that only
appropriate/authorized people have access to the information.
 Participants are stakeholders with common interests/goals, capabilities, and ownership (the
ability and capability to initiate change affecting the group).
 Participants within a trust pool are credible members building on an initial informal relationship
based on the common scope of interest.
 The trust pools have a rally point, focus area, or purpose to unite for a common mission and
utilize subject matter experts to act upon the needs of the group.
7.3 Examples of Information Sharing Trust Pools
Entities including, but not limited to, those discussed here are examples of information sharing trust
pools participating within the Communications sector. They are broken into two categories: operator
and sector. Operator level trust pools encompass those groups which may be informal or non-
structured and more easily accessible for small to medium sized business members. Sector level trust
pools represent formal and structured groups encompassing all sizes of businesses as well as all
government levels.
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
7.3.1 Operator Trust Pools
 US Telecom Cybersecurity Working Group was established in 2004 as the focal point for
member engagement and information sharing related to Cybersecurity strategic, operational
and planning activities, supporting the wireline communications sector. The group includes
policy and technical representatives from wireline service providers of all sizes and discusses
the multitude of industry and public-private partnership initiatives across the entire
government landscape. The Working Group has served as the primary vehicle for establishing
policy positions on regulatory and non-regulatory matters and provides the association with
guidance that is used to represent industry interests in discussions with government officials
and legislators.
 CTIA/CTIA Cybersecurity Working Group – The US Wireless Association, originally known as
the Cellular Telephone Industries Association, is an industry trade group representing all
wireless communication sectors including cellular, personal communication services and
enhanced specialized mobile radio. CTIA sponsors the CTIA Cybersecurity Working Group
(CSWG), comprised of leading industry security experts from across the wireless ecosystem to
address the mobile cyber threat landscape. Established in June 2012, CSWG sponsors key
cybersecurity initiatives such as an automated Cyber-Threat Information Sharing Pilot, as well
as advanced technical research programs targeted at cyber-threat trends and coordination
amongst wireless companies and with government agencies. One of the principle findings from
the information sharing pilot is that the current STIX and TAXI schema in use by DHS may not
support all of the telecom use cases analyzed in the pilot. Thus the STIX and TAXI schema
needs to be extended or adapted to support telecom use cases and this limits the
communications sector’s ability to share communications network related cyber threat
indicators under the current model.
 NCTA – The Internet & Television Association/NCTA Cybersecurity Working Group. The NCTA
is the principal trade association for the U.S. cable industry, representing cable operators that
deliver digital services to consumers and businesses throughout urban and rural America and
more than 200 cable program networks that product TV’s most creative and popular shows.
NCTA’s Cybersecurity Working Group was established in 2012 and is the focal point for
member engagement and information sharing related cybersecurity strategic, operational, and
planning activities for the cable sector. The group includes policy and technical representatives
from its member companies and cybersecurity experts from CableLabs.
 A Network Service Provider (NSP) is a business or organization that sells bandwidth or direct
network access to the Internet and usually access to its network access points. Also known as
Internet Service Providers (ISPs), NSPs may consist of telecommunications companies, data
carriers, wireless communications providers, and cable television operators offering high-speed
Internet access.
 Messaging, Malware and Mobile Anti-Abuse Working Group (M3AAWG) – This global
organization formed in early 2004 is a technology-neutral, non-political working body focused
on operational issues of Internet abuse including technology, industry collaboration and public
policy. The group’s purpose is to bring industry together to work against bots, malware, spam,
viruses, denial of service attacks and other online exploitation. With a membership which
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
includes Internet Service Providers (ISPs), telecommunications companies, Email Service
Providers (ESP), social networking companies, hardware and software vendors, major brands,
major antivirus vendors and security vendors, M3AAWG develops and publishes best practice
papers, position statements, training and education videos, and other materials to help the
online community fight abuse with a focus on operational practices.
 California Utilities Emergency Association (CUEA) serves as a point of contact for critical
infrastructure utilities and the California Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES) and other
Governmental Agencies before, during and after an event to facilitate communications and
cooperation between member utilities and public agencies; and with non-member utilities; to
provide emergency response support for electric, petroleum pipeline, telecommunications,
gas, water and wastewater utilities; and to support utility emergency planning, mitigation,
training, exercises and education. CUEA was chartered by the Governor of California in 1952 as
part of the State’s Civil Defense Plan, growing from a four-member group to include nearly 100
members and geographically covering the entire state of California.
 Informal Information Networks of Trust – Preceding the very earliest days of the Internet, in
the ARPANET era, operational issues across networks including security arose routinely. Early
operators would exchange messages, typically via e-mail, with colleagues responsible for other
networks to solve such problems. To this day, informal sharing continuously occurs between
professionals within different organizations that know and trust each other to assist in security
responses. In order to make such informal communications more efficient several security
mailing lists were formed which number into the hundreds. These include open mailing lists
that anyone can join and closed lists where a moderator will invite or review requests for
membership. All manner of security topics may be discussed from vulnerabilities and patching
to investigations of particular botnets or malicious actors.
 Vetted Security Communities – In the early 2000’s, with the rise of e-crime, informal security
mailing lists and communities began creating more formal rules of membership and adopting
important concepts such as formal vetting processes, membership criteria, and mission
statements. These groups may focus on one particular issue (e.g. the DNS Changer Working
Group coordinated the handling of the response to the DNS Changer malware) or tackle
general security issues that may affect network operators, software vendors, government
bodies, or any organization. In such groups, existing members follow criteria to carefully
expand membership while providing vetting in three main realms – sphere of trust, sphere of
action, and need to know. While no formal organization typically exists that manages these
communities, these groups are still highly organized and generally infer trust transitively via
their membership activities. This trust is based on individual rather than organizational trust
and is supported by the network of trust inherent in the combination of one-to-one trust
relationships.
 Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAOs) – An ISAO is a group created to
gather, analyze, and disseminate cyber threat information through a more flexible, self-
organized approach of information sharing activities amongst communities of interest such as
small businesses across sectors: legal, accounting, and consulting firms that support cross-
sector clients, etc. In February 2015 Executive Order 13691 was issued directing the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to encourage the development of ISAOs. The ISAO
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Standards Organization is currently collaborating with public and private sector entities to form
an official definition of ISAO.
7.3.2 Sector Level Trust Pools
 Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) is the coalition unifying the global response to
cybercrime across industry, government and law enforcement sectors and nongovernment
organization (NGO) communities. APWG manages three parallel enterprises including
clearinghouses for cybercrime-related machine event data to inform members on security
applications, forensic routines, and research programs; an annual symposium on electronic
crime research; and an international cybersecurity awareness campaign
(STOP.THINK.CONNECT). Established in 2003, APWG conducts its mission through: a US-based
501(c)6 organization; the APWG.EU European chapter (established in 2013), a non-profit
research foundation incorporated in Spain and managed by an independent board; and the
STOP. THINK. CONNECT. Messaging Convention, Inc., a US-based non-profit 501(c)3
corporation. Membership is open to financial institutions, retailers, solutions providers, ISPs,
ESPs, telephone companies, defense contractors, law enforcement agencies, trade groups,
treaty organizations, researchers in relevant fields of study and government agencies.
 The Communications Sector Coordinating Council (CSCC) fosters and facilitates the
coordination of sector-wide policy-related activities and initiatives designed to improve both
the physical and cyber security of the communications critical infrastructure. CSCC, chartered in
June 2006, represents the communications sector within cross-sector/interdependency
matters, including provision of representation to activities such as the ANSI Homeland Security
Standards Panel, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council (CIPAC), National
Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIAC) Working Groups, and the Partnership for Critical
Infrastructure Security. CSCC improves equitable information sharing among and/or between
the communications sector, sector members, government entities, and other industry sectors.
The basis for CSCC’s coordinated approach is Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7 (HSPD-
7) and the National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP).
 Cyber Ecosystem Key Players represent the functional capabilities—services and operations
shared and used throughout the world—which have broad visibility of the global environment,
deep technical expertise within their functional space, and an understanding of the roles and
functions of numerous enablers within the community. Their customer base drives their
activities towards ensuring all customers have full access to the capabilities and services they
provide and they take significant care to ensure even-handed treatment of their global
customer base. Because of the variance in non-disclosure and privacy laws globally, cyber
ecosystem key players generally choose to operate under stricter non-disclosure and privacy
environments than entities operating within only one national border. Given the
interconnectedness of the cyber ecosystem, a cyber-attack against any two key players either
independently or in close proximity gives rise to systemic consequences. In such cases a cyber
incident(s) of significant magnitude would require a concerted response beyond a single
enterprise or sector. These cyber ecosystem key players utilize their independent, dedicated
computer security incident response teams to maintain functionality but also have dedicated
security incident response teams for product lines or commercial networks to ensure global
service continuity. Additionally, they share global product and service information through
tightly controlled private sector trust groups.
22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
 Forum for Incident Response Teams (FIRST) – FIRST is a global organization of incident
response teams from government, military, commercial and educational organizations
fostering cooperation and coordination in incident prevention, stimulating rapid reaction to
incidents, and promoting information sharing among members and the community at large.
Formed in 1990 in response to a major incident called the “Wank worm,” FIRST provides value
added services such as access to up-to-date best practice documents, technical colloquia for
security experts, hands-on classes, an annual incident response conference, publications and
web services, and special interest groups. FIRST members include 356 teams (72 in the US) and
77 countries.
 Government Coordinating Councils (GCCs) – GCCs are formed as the government counterpart
for each Sector Coordinating Council (SCC) to enable interagency and cross-jurisdictional
coordination. The GCCs, including one specifically for the Communications sector, are
comprised of representatives from across various levels of government (federal, state, local, or
tribal), as appropriate to the operating landscape of each individual sector. They coordinate
strategies, activities, policy and communications across government entities within each sector
to include providing interagency strategic communications and coordination at the sector level,
participating in planning efforts related to the development, implementation, update and
revision of the National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP) and the Sector-Specific Plans
(SSPs), coordinating strategic communications, discussion and resolution of issues among
government entities within the sector, and coordinating with and supporting the efforts of the
SCC to plan, implement, and execute the nation’s critical infrastructure protection mission.
 Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) are nonprofit organizations that provide a
central resource for gathering information on cyber threats to critical infrastructure and
providing two-way sharing of information between the private and public sectors.
 Multi-Association Framework Development Initiative (MAFDI) – The initiative, co-chaired by
the US Telecom Association vice president and the Information Technology Industry Council
vice president, includes 32 US-based trade associations. The MAFDI group’s four key goals are:
(1) to include engaging multiple stakeholders in coordinating views of the use and evolution of
the NIST framework and any external factors that could affect the viability of the model; (2) to
share information across sectors on specific NIST framework activities and experiences with
regulators and other stakeholders; (3) to work to promote the framework as an international
model; and (4) to bring key influencers from government to hear their perspectives, learn of
new initiatives and share industry interests and concerns.
 National Coordinating Center for Communications (NCC), as part of the Department of
Homeland Security’s (DHS) National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
(NCCIC), is the Communications ISAC. The White House designated NCC as an ISAC in January
2000 in accordance with Presidential Decision Directive-63. It continuously monitors national
and international incidents and events that may impact emergency communications and
facilitates the exchange of vulnerability, threat, intrusion and anomaly information amongst
government and industry telecommunications participants. Incidents include not only acts of
terrorism, but also natural events such as tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, and earthquakes. In
cases of emergency, NCC functions as national coordinator for emergency communications
response and recovery efforts under Emergency Support Function #2 of the National Response
Framework. NCC works with both the US Computer Emergency Response Team (US-CERT) and
23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) to monitor
and resolve issues impacting cyber and communications during an emergency. The
NCC joint government and industry partnership consists of over 60+ communications
sector entities comprising expertise from wireline, wireless, cable, broadcast, satellite,
equipment manufacturers, and associations.
 National Council of ISACs (NCI), formed in 2003, is a coordinating body designed to maximize
information flow across the private sector critical infrastructures and with the government.
NCI comprises 24 organizations designated by their sectors as their information sharing and
operational arms. Sharing and coordination are accomplished through daily and weekly calls
between ISAC operations centers, daily reports, requests for information, monthly meetings,
exercises, and other activities as situations require. NCI also organizes its own drills and
exercises as well as participates in national exercises. Council members are present on the
National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) watch floor, are
embedded with the National Infrastructure Coordinating Center (NICC) during significant
incidents, and collaborate with other federal government agencies, fusion centers, the State
and Local Tribal Territorial Government Coordinating Council (SLTTCC), the Regional
Consortium Coordinating Council (RCCC), the Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security
(PCIS) and international partners.
 National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance (NCFTA) – NCFTA, founded in 2002, is a non-
profit corporation focused on identifying, mitigating, and neutralizing cyber-crime threats
globally by conducting real time information sharing and analysis with subject matter experts in
the public, private, and academic sectors. Collaboration with national and international
partners across private industry, law enforcement, government and academia has resulted in
criminal and civil investigations which otherwise may not have been addressed. NCFTA
provides physical and remote forums to meet with public, private and academic partners;
dedicated and trained staff who specialize in respective initiatives; focused meetings and
events for each initiative; intelligence feeds built and maintained by NCFTA; monthly initiative
calls including trend updates, law enforcement efforts and intelligence gaps needing attention;
contacts to help inform and encourage coordination amongst public and private sector
partners; and assessments and reports based on NCFTA intelligence, including focused
benchmarking and success metrics for each initiative.
 Network Security Information Exchanges (NSIE) – Industry and Government coordinate
through NSIE, which was formed in 1991 as a subcommittee of the Network Security
Telecommunication Advisory Committee (NSTAC), to voluntarily share sensitive information on
threats to operations, administration, maintenance, and provisioning systems supporting the
telecommunications infrastructure. Government NSIE members include departments and
agencies that use national security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) communications
services, represent law enforcement, or have information relating to network security threats
and vulnerabilities. The President’s NSTAC NSIE representatives include industry subject
matter experts engaged in prevention, detection, and/or investigation of communications
software penetrations or who have security and investigative responsibilities.
24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
 Sector Coordinating Councils (SCCs) are self-organized and self-governed councils that enable
critical infrastructure owners and operators, their trade associations, and other industry
representatives to interact on a wide range of sector-specific strategies, policies, and activities.
The SCCs coordinate and collaborate with sector-specific agencies (SSAs) and related
Government Coordinating Councils (GCCs) to address the entire range of critical infrastructure
security and resilience policies and efforts for that sector.
8. Conduits for Information Sharing
For the purposes of this report the working group defined “conduits” as the following: a means by which
something is transmitted1; a channel through which anything is conveyed2; an agency or means of access,
communication, etc.3Based upon this definition there are many conduits for information sharing within
the communications sector ranging from informal items such as phone calls, emails, distribution lists to
more sophisticated formal automated sharing such as that conducted by DHS. In its previous efforts to
develop use cases, the working group found that information follows as a stream from informal to formal.
Simple items such as phone calls or emails represent the most informal with automated machine to
machine sharing representing the most formal arrangements.
As noted above there are a variety of mechanisms for sharing information ranging from informal items
such as a phone call, email, distribution list, teleconference, meeting, briefing, professional membership,
working group, professional conference, online seminar, technical liaisons, technical seminars or
conferences, tabletop exercises to more formal items such as automated information sharing. Table 1
below lists the various forms of information sharing ranging from informal to formal:
Table 1: Mechanisms for information sharing from informal to formal
A telephone call between two people who may be business acquaintances is the most informal way of
sharing information. A phone call would be used in a situation where basic information should be
shared, i.e., whether either party is aware of open source reporting (i.e., on the radio or television)
about a cyber-attack and whether the attack affects them.
1 American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2011 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing
Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
2 Random House Kemerman Webster’s College Dictionary, © 2010 K Dictionaries Ltd. Copyright 2005,1997, 1991 by Random
House, Inc. All rights reserved.
3 Collins English Dictionary—Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 c HarpersCollins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000,
2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014
25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Using electronic mail between the two parties is the next most informal avenue. An email could be used
when the two parties wish to share slightly more detailed basic information, i.e., one organization
wishes to share information to remedy a type of cyber-attack with another related to a specific cyber-
attack which affected one organization and may have affected the other organization. Of course
information sharing through email can be transmitted from one to several parties or more formally
through a distribution list of participants. When more than one organization is involved in the specific
cyber event, information regarding the event and precautions or practices to alleviate the issues
resulting from the event can be shared among trusted partners. This occurs when members of a trust
pool contact each other and a government entity.
These participants can take the information sharing to a concerted organizational level through a
designated bridge for a teleconference. A teleconference may be convened when a cyber or physical
event requires discussion and coordination among the affected parties, whether industry or government
entities. The next step would be a face to face meeting among participants. At a briefing, a subject matter
expert could share information with several participants with a need to know and a shared understanding.
A meeting or briefing may occur to provide information to participants because of an event or in
anticipation of an event to coordinate organizational activities which may affect a large population.
Professional membership in an organization, i.e., one of the recognized trust pools, provides a more
concentrated focus. Information sharing through professional membership occurs when some, most or
all members of the profession may be affected by an event. A working group -- an ad hoc group of
subject matter experts in the same industry working together to achieve specified goals -- may come
together regarding a domain and focus on discussion or activity around a subject area.
At a professional conference, subject matter experts may share information pertaining to their
profession as well as a cyber or physical event. Because all the professionals may not be available to
attend a conference, a webinar-- a seminar or other presentation that takes place on the Internet
allowing participants in different locations to see and hear the presenter, ask questions, and sometimes
answer polls -- also provides a means for the information sharing process. A webinar may be initiated to
provide professionals with best practices or lessons learned as the result of a cyber-attack.
In a technical liaison relationship, a subject matter expert from an organization provides technical
expertise to communicate and coordinate activities, i.e., share cybersecurity information, with another
organization with the goal of resolving an issue or event. Technical liaisons generally occur in
conjunction with a cyber event or may be initiated because of a cyber event. The organization’s liaison
officer may be collocated at a security operations center as part of a memorandum of agreement
between the organization and the center.
A technical seminar or conference may be convened to discuss an event or issue among liaison officers.
Such a seminar or conference may occur because of one or more cybersecurity events affecting several
critical infrastructure organizations and government entities. Because this type of information sharing
opportunity may require extensive collaboration and coordination, lead time for this activity may be
several months after the occurrence of the event or issue.
Thus, or because of the likelihood of a cybersecurity event, a tabletop exercise involving executives of
various organizations and government entities may provide strategic information sharing. A full scale
exercise involving likely affected organization liaison officers and government entities provides the
26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
best opportunity for practicing the information sharing process. As with the technical seminar or
conference, a tabletop or full scale exercise may require several months to a year to organize and
execute.
The ultimate means of sharing cybersecurity information and the most formal would be an
organization’s application for membership in and use of an automated information system such as
Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX) and Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator
Information (TAXII). STIX and TAXII are community-driven technical specifications designed to enable
automated information sharing for cybersecurity situational awareness, real-time notification, and
response. Information shared through an automated system is validated before distribution.
8.1 Information Sharing Conduit Examples
The following are a few real world examples of information sharing using both industry and
government entities. In the first example, an industry engineer discovered the Heartbleed
vulnerability and, after committing and applying a patch, shared the information with an
international organization via email. The international organization used a distribution list to
send out an advisory sharing the information. A government entity used the advisory to post a
technical alert to its portal, to which trusted partners had access. Information regarding this
vulnerability led to convening a trust pool members’ meeting and associated teleconference. To
further share information about the vulnerability, a government entity used a distribution list to
request information on confirmed exploits from trust pool members. Once the vulnerability was
patched by more affected government and industry partners, another government entity
conducted webinars on the vulnerability, sharing analysis and mitigation actions.
In another example of the information sharing process, a foreign government’s commercial banks
and government agencies experienced heavy distributed denial of service attacks from over 150
countries and contacted its government computer emergency response team. The foreign
government computer emergency response team (CERT) contacted by email through an
international cyber organization distribution list the US Computer Emergency Readiness Team for
mitigation assistance, providing the pertinent attacking information for cross data analysis. US-
CERT notified via email another US government entity, the Communications ISAC, which in turn
contacted the potentially associated sector members via email. Sector members researched and
identified the problems and implemented mitigation strategies to alleviate the attacks. Once
mitigation was completed, the US-CERT emailed and telephoned the foreign government CERT to
ensure the activity had ended.
8.2 Information Sharing Conduit Challenges
There are some challenges related to sharing information, most of which result from scalability
concerns. These issues appear to shape the cybersecurity information sharing processes for the
communications sector. Table 2 Challenges and Scalability, provides lists of proactive and
conflicting issues which the working group recognizes.
27The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
Table 2: Challenges and Scalability
PROs CONs
Established trust pools support through personal SMBs may have neither dedicated, on-staff cyber
relationships personnel nor capital to expend
Use cases provide evidence of previous info sharing Desired degree of information sharing attention may
activity and substance for increasing and improving not be realized until cost benefit can be justified for
incident response SMBs
Use cases include annual cybersecurity incident study, Need for additional cybersecurity personnel will strain
incident responses and various exercises involving availability as more private sector/government
private sector and/or government entities at state, entities participate, especially personnel with security
regional, national, and international levels clearances
For networks with less (relative) traffic,
anomalies/incursions may be easier to detect, thereby
shrinking operator and industry response time
The list of issues above is not intended to be all inclusive but highlight some of the main
challenges identified by the working group.
8.3 Future Activities
With all private sector partners, and especially in the case of SMBs, the capabilities to fully engage
in a two-way information sharing process are dependent on upon cost effectiveness and
workforce availability for each business. Many SMBs may currently participate as consumers of
information through informal means (personal/professional relationships) instead of formal
means (organized trust pools which cater to larger private sector partners).
The creation and increased use of ISAOs and the establishment of the ISAO Standards Organization
in October 2015, may improve the nation’s cybersecurity posture regarding SMB involvement.
ISAOs may provide an information sharing link between the government and SMBs. The ISAO
Standards Organization may help with this effort by identifying standards and guidelines for robust
and effective information sharing and analysis related to cybersecurity risks, incidents, and best
practices.4
For their part, government entities and larger private sector partners may continue to use the
identified trust pools and the array of cybersecurity legislation and guidelines to further enhance
and refine information sharing processes. As necessary, additional trust pools, cybersecurity
legislation5, 6and other guidance may evolve to further define and refine the cyber environment
4 ISAO Standards Organization, https://www.isao.org/ viewed 19 August 2016.
5 U.S. law enforcement and intelligence officials said on 15 September 2016, they are building legal cases to respond to growing
Russian attempts to disrupt and discredit the November elections without sparking an open confrontation with the Russian
President. See http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-cyber-russia-idUSKCN11M00H, viewed 19 September 2016.
6 The National Bank of Belgium, the New York Fed, and the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT)
this summer set up a task force with representatives from some 25 central banks to set cybersecurity standards around inter-bank
transfers that may be adopted globally. The new principles or guidance could cover responsibilities of banks that send and receive
28The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
and, in succession, information, and the sharing processes. Human to human information flow
processes may continue to be supplemented with machine to human information flow processes.
Machine to machine information flow processes also may be added as the cost or benefits are
discovered and the value of and need for additional information flows are realized and
incorporated as part of the business model for all entities.
8.4 Technology
Finally, the working group discussed the various technologies available to facilitate information
sharing. For information flow processes involving machines, available structures and platforms
include automated information systems (AIS), such as Structured Threat Information eXpression
(STIX), and Trusted Automated eXchange of Indicator Information (TAXII). STIX, a collaborative effort
to develop a standardized, structured language to represent cyber threat information, conveys the full
range of potential cyber threat elements and strives to be expressive, flexible, extensible, automated,
and human-readable. TAXII, a set of services and message exchanges, empowers organizations to
share the information they choose with partners they choose.7
These technological means have the potential to be instrumental in sharing information among
private sector and government entities. However, the working group finds, while the technology is
beneficial, it is still developing. For instance, the STIX and TAXII schemes are not structured to share
telecom-specific use cases, and will need to be customized for the sector’s needs. Further, AIS is often
time intensive to set up and requires significant monetary resources. As such, Currently, it is suited to
large businesses and government entities;8SMBs remain inhibited by resource constraints.
Finally given the diversity of sharing that is currently underway in the sector, policymakers should be
careful not to artificially constrain these activities by attempting to force all sharing through the AIS
portal or via government and DHS. What is important is that information is being shared.
Government should encourage all forms of sharing and the protections afforded via CISA should apply
when sharing meets the requirements of the statute. As a policy matter attempting to push sharing
via government could have a limiting impact contrary to the overall goal of the legislation.
money transfers and networks like SWIFT that transmit payment instructions in correspondent banking. This is in response to the
81 million dollar Bangladesh bank heist. See http://www.reuters.com/article/us-cyber-heist-basel- taskforce-idUSKCN11L269,
viewed 19 September 2016.
7 Information Sharing Specifications for Cybersecurity, https://www.us-cert.gov/Information-Sharing-Specifications-Cybersecurity,
viewed 30 Aug 2016.
8 As of 27 Sep 2016, about 50 agencies, private companies and organizations have joined the DHS automatic information sharing
network, STIX/TAXII. http://federalnewsradio.com/cybersecurity/2016/09/dhs-50-agencies-private-companies-cyber-information-
sharing-network/, viewed 28 Sep 2016.
29The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council V
Cybersecurity Information Sharing Working Group 5
FINAL REPORT
9. Recommendations
The goals and objectives of this report were to improve the communication sector’s ability to identify,
protect, detect, respond, and recover from cyber-attacks through information sharing and to develop
recommendations to encourage sharing of cybersecurity information between companies in the
communication sector and government agencies. After careful consideration of the details noted in the
use case examples and the barriers to information sharing sections, the working group has identified the
following generic and encompassing recommendations.
 The FCC should acknowledge the breadth and depth of cyber-threat information sharing that currently
takes place between and among industry and government entities, and recognize that DHS is leading in
government information sharing with the private sector. To the extent the FCC wants to participate in
information sharing it should do so in the context of the broader efforts organized by DHS and not
duplicate efforts within the FCC.
 Industry should continue its efforts to conduct and expand on the current pilot that it has underway
regarding information sharing using STIX/TAXII, and determine if these protocols meet the needs of
communications sector. Industry should also explore the opportunities and challenges related to
sector-wide operational use of DHS’ Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) portal.
 Industry should enhance the Communications ISAC by developing a hosted, private website on which
government entities, industry partners, and stakeholders representing SMBs may register to access a
cybersecurity resource repository and message board. At the same time, the ISAC should consider the
best means to encourage international involvement in information-sharing processes balanced against
the challenges outlined in this document.
 The public and the private sector should continue to work together to develop, promote, and enhance
cybersecurity education and awareness within the sector, including by educating SMBs regarding the
depth and breadth of existing venues that offer cyber-threat information-sharing opportunities.
 The government should explore a grant program to provide funding to SMBs so that they may obtain or
develop resources necessary to robustly participate in the cybersecurity information sharing
ecosystem.
 There is currently a considerable amount of threat intelligence gathering and client-tailored
information sharing provided on a proprietary basis by commercial entities. Policy makers should
continue to encourage and support such sharing. Proprietary information sharing tools and managed
security services that incorporate this information provide a reliably agile, effective, and innovative
mechanism to both heighten awareness of cyber threats and tactics and can play a role in mitigating
attacks.
30APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
1. EAS Service Disruption
Description Poor password security allowed hackers to broadcast a bogus warning on
TV networks. The FCC published an urgent advisory to change passwords
on all manufacturers’ equipment that forces emergency broadcasts on
television networks, interrupting regular
programming and to ensure the gear was secured behind firewalls. They
should also inspect systems to ensure hackers had not queued
“unauthorized alerts” for future transmission.
ISP & Entity Relationship Industry to Government
Relationship Type Formal - structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Communications ISAC members and Government
Content & Value: Emergency Alert System for three MI television stations
breached, sending audio messages of zombie citing and avoidance alerts
(hacking)
Timeliness: Contacted Michigan Association of Broadcasters, State
Police, and FCC same day
Sharing Process: Email notification from TV stations to MAB, police and
FCC as well as NCCIC/NCC
Benefits of Information Research, identification, and mitigation of the problem at affected
Sharing stations and notification of other stations to mitigate possibility of the
problem being repeated
Gaps in Information & None
Process
Barriers & Challenges Contacting all stations nationwide to reset passwords from the factory
standard; message could have involved a different code causing public
concern and/or panic
2. Data Breach Investigative Report
Description An annual report presenting the threats, vulnerabilities and actions that
lead to cyber security incidents and how those incidents impacted victim
organizations
ISP & Entity Relationship Industry to Industry; Industry to Government
Relationship Type Formal structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Industry and Government
31APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Content & Value: For calendar year 2014, 70 contributing organizations
provided information on 79,790 security incidents with 2,122
confirmed data breaches affecting organizations in 61 countries
Timeliness: Annual report shared on a regular basis provides trend
analysis from year to year since 2004
Sharing Process: Gathered data from individual organizations,
reviewed and converted into a framework to create a common,
anonymous aggregate data set, then wrote and published report
through open sources
Benefits of Information Shows changes in aspects of the threat space, longer term trends and
Sharing findings while providing a traditional focus on interesting developments
over the previous year.
Provides communication providers (small, medium, and large) with
greater visibility to the threat landscape.
Provides government and private enterprise with visibility to trends for
planning purposes.
Gaps in Information & (Extra Space)
Process Diverse enterprise environments with numerous differences in baseline
security practices limit the usefulness of data collection. After trends
and types of compromise are shared among organizations and
governments for strategic and informational purposes, follow-up
becomes informal.
Barriers & Challenges Comprehensive and information is most helpful when making
cybersecurity-related planning decisions.
The volume of indicators shared overall may be dependent on factors
ranging from frequency of activity, fidelity and availability of attack
information and available resources to produce the information.
Some subsectors experience different threats than those faced by the
majority. Many subsectors in different industries share closer threat
profiles than do subsectors in the same overall industry.
Information sharing, compliance and regulatory standards imposed on an
industry level is less than optimal and may be counterproductive.
3. Foreign Government Sharing
Description A foreign government’s commercial banks and government agencies
experienced heavy distributed denial of service attacks from 168 countries
utilizing the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) amplification. The government
computer emergency response team (CERT) contacted DHS/NCCIC/US-
CERT for mitigation assistance through an international cyber organization,
FIRST.org, email distribution list.
The foreign government CERT provided US based attacking Internet
Protocol (IP) addresses and timestamp information which was passed to
another component, DHS/NCCIC/NCC, for cross data analysis. NCC
contacted 21 potentially associated Communications sector members
who researched and identified the problems and implemented mitigation
strategies.
32APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
ISP & Entity Relationship Government to Industry
Relationship Type Formal - structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Communications ISAC members
Content & Value: Attacking IP addresses located within the US involved in
UDP and amplification attacks targeting port 1900 (SSDP)
Timeliness: Provided 1 week after onset of DDoS attacks
Sharing Process: Email notification from country CERT to US-CERT
passed to NCC for cross data analysis and shared with 21
Communications ISAC members
Benefits of Information Research and identification of the problems and implementation of
Sharing mitigation strategies
Gaps in Information & A week delay in receiving the request; a lack of beginning and ending
Process timestamps for the events against the different IP addresses (quality
control check); and a corrupted open source database for IP address
identification slowed the process
Barriers & Challenges Time difference between the two countries’ CERTs and possible language
barriers as well as a lack of an incident severity schema for incident
progress in addition to post event and request for information time lines
and methodology
4. Telephony Denial of Service (TDOS)
Description
Telephony Denial of Service (TDOS)
ISP & Entity Relationship
Government to Industry
Relationship Type
Formal structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Communications ISAC member/Carrier
Content & Value: Phone number located within the US involved in TDOS
attack on PSAP, originating across international borders
Timeliness: Immediate notification to carrier, however international
coordination through DOJ to international counterparts experienced
significant delay (several days)
33APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Sharing Process: PSAP notification to carrier, carrier tracking call
originations to an IP address outside the US, carrier notifies Dept of
Justice
Benefits of Information Research and identification of the threat and implementation of
Sharing mitigation strategies across international boundaries, ability to
aggregate information across sector for government, and best
practices
Gaps in Information & A lack of beginning and ending timestamps for the events against the
Process originating IP addresses; and lack of coordination guidelines across
international jurisdictions between law enforcement groups
Barriers & Challenges Time difference between countries, as well as a lack of an incident
severity schema for incident progress in addition to post event and
request for information time lines and methodology; the law
enforcement perspective and process across country borders
5. Heartbleed
Description An industry engineer discovered the Heartbleed vulnerability, committed,
and applied a patch, then notified an international organization which
issued an advisory. US-CERT posted a technical alert, which led to
DHS/NCCIC convening a Cyber Unified Coordination Group meeting. NCC
distributed a request for information to Communications ISAC members
and government partners seeking shared information confirmed exploits.
After patching the vulnerability, DHS’ the Telecommunications Service
Priority (TSP) system database service was patched and updated
removing the OpenSSL vulnerability. ICS-CERT conducted webinars on the
vulnerability sharing analysis and mitigation actions.
ISP & Entity Relationship Industry to Industry
Relationship Type Formal - structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Industry and government
Content & Value: The vulnerability is a Heartbeat extension (RFC6520) to
OpenSSL’s Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) protocols which allows malicious actors to send specially
crafted heartbeat requests to the vulnerable server and obtain sensitive
information stored in the server’s memory. Harvested data can be pieced
together to develop a broader understanding of the acquired information.
Timeliness: Notification of vulnerability to the world within 3 weeks of
initial discovery
Sharing Process: Information shared via email to distribution lists,
through a dedicated website, technical advisory, and webinars
34APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Benefits of Information Industry partners revoked and reissued certificates after
Sharing remediation, changing credentials/ passwords as needed.
Gaps in Information & Slow in setting up Cyber UCG meeting
Process
Barriers & Challenges Providing notification of the vulnerability and mitigation actions
through as many channels as possible in a timely fashion
6. NCFTA
Description Non-Profit organization focused on cybersecurity training and
awareness.
ISP & Entity Relationship Informal, unstructured, information sharing between private sector,
academia and government – “trust group”.
Relationship Type Informal - Unstructured
Information that is Shared To whom: Private sector, academics and government security
professionals participate in an informal communication via email list or
one-one conversations.
Content & Value: Private, academic or government can ask
questions, share examples (e.g. “Is this a new sample of a
distributed denial of service, DDOS, toolkit?”) or seek security
contact for off-line investigation.
Timeliness: This may be real-time, ‘off-list’ or distributed via email list.
Sharing Process: The delivery method will vary based on the type of
information to be shared. Private industry, law enforcement, government,
and academia may reach out verbally or one-on-one if the information is
highly sensitive. List members may ‘share’ security-related information or
questions to the group as appropriate.
Benefits of Information Research and identification of threat indicator awareness and
Sharing discussion of possible mitigation strategies across international
boundaries.
Ability to quickly identify if this is a new or known threat. For example, in
the case of the new DDOS toolkit, information is shared to the entire list
for awareness and feedback.
Ability to communicate with security personnel at a specific agency,
country, or private entity quickly.
35APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Gaps in Information & Information is shared organically. Participating members will informally vet
Process information shared to determine relevance, accuracy, scope of the threat,
and mitigation strategies. Indexing or categorizing and tracking of threats
will occur in other venues.
Barriers & Challenges As the pool of participants grows, trust levels decline and list
information becomes more generic.
7. Government to Industry Solar Flares
Description Solar Flares have caused negative impacts on Electric Power Transmission;
Cellphone, Radio and Satellite Communications; GPS and other electronic
communications. The Quebec Blackout Storm of 1989, caused by a Solar
Flare, resulted in the entire 9,500-megawatt output from Quebec’s La
Grande Hydroelectric complex to experience massive power swings and a
collapse of the Quebec power grid. The Halloween Storm of 2003 swamped
the sensors of dozens of satellites and the Astronauts hid deep within the
body of the ISS, but still reported radiation effects and ocular “shooting
stars”. More recently, low strength solar flares have caused cellphones to
drop calls resulting in numerous complaints directed at the
Telecommunications Industry.
ISP & Entity Relationship Government to Industry
Provide predictions of Solar flare activity.
Relationship Type
Formal-Structured
Information that is Shared To whom: Communications ISAC members
Content & Value: NOAA’ Space Weather Prediction Center (SWPC) provides
predictions of solar flare activity. Solar flares can cause satellite drag and
disrupt radio and satellite communications, GPS signals, and eclectic power
transmission. The predictions can alert ISAC members of the potential
disruptions so they can take precautions and more quickly correlate cause
and effect.
Timeliness: Predictions are available ranging from monthly, weekly and
daily forecasts.
Sharing Process: The predictions are posted on the SWPC web site
http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/products-and-data or by signing up to their
subscription service http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/content/subscription-
services.
Information is further distributed through the DHS NCC. The NCC provides
acts as a conduit for feedback and impact assessment, as needed.
Benefits of Information The Citizens and Government rely on the communications
Sharing capabilities provided by Industry.
36APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Gaps in Information & Industry may not be aware of the resources available from SWPC.
Process
Barriers & Challenges None
8. Hacktivists
Description Hacking collectives are leveraging open source, publicly available
information in social media to identify and target law enforcement
officers, public officials, their employers or associates and families
ISP & Entity Relationship Government to Industry
Information that is Shared To whom: Industry and Government
Content & Value: Product provides threat actor targeting techniques and
suggests the targeted groups maintain an enhanced awareness of the
content they post and how it may reflect on them or be used against them
in court or during online attacks
Timeliness: Information provided as part of an ongoing
investigation
Sharing Process:
Benefits of Information Provides operational mitigation support to countermand potential cyber
Sharing attacks
Gaps in Information & Limited details on the threat actor as well as targeted individuals or
Process organizations as the information comes from an ongoing investigation
Barriers & Challenges Announcement is based on information from an ongoing
investigation, limiting details
9. Qakbot Botnet
Description Qakbot (Qbot) is an information stealing botnet capable of spreading
across a network through network shares. Although Qakbot has been
infecting computers since 2009, NCCIC/US-CERT observed a recent
increase of new infections in January 2016
ISP & Entity Relationship Government to Industry
Information that is Shared To whom: Industry and Government
37APPENDIX A: PRIVATE TO GOVERNMENT USE CASES/EXAMPLES
Content & Value: Bulletin published jointly by FBI and
DHS/NCCIC/US-CERT provides indicators related to this activity
Timeliness: Increased activity cited in open source reporting on 22
January 2016 spurred indicator information sharing published 28 January
2016
Sharing Process: FBI shared indicators with DHS/NCCIC/US-CERT and
together they published a joint indicator bulletin for informational
purposes to industry partners
Benefits of Information Highlights known cyber threat indicators to government and
Sharing industry partners
Gaps in Information & There may be other indicators not included in this bulletin
Process
Barriers & Challenges Bulletin is based on information from an ongoing investigation,
limiting details
10. Social Engineering
Description Private Industry Notification to inform industry partners of a trend in
criminal actors conducting social engineering scams targeting phone and
email service providers to target government officials and corporate
executives, ultimately gaining access to personal banking information.
ISP & Entity Relationship Government to Industry
Information that is Shared To whom: Industry
Content & Value: Precautionary measures to mitigate social
engineering threats
Timeliness: Information provided during the course of associated
investigations
Sharing Process: FBI Cyber Division provides these notification reports in
conjunction with a statutory requirement outlined in 42 USC 10607
Benefits of Information Provides awareness for participating organizations and peers within the
Sharing broader community or sector
Gaps in Information & None
Process
Barriers & Challenges Information provided follows the Traffic Light Protocol for
distribution
38

