PDF Content from https://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG4_Final_Report_031815.pdf:
The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4: Final Report
March 2015
1The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...................................................................................... 4
A. Voluntary Mechanisms ............................................................................... 6
B. Guidance to Individual Companies on the Use of the NIST Framework ..... 8
C. Communication Sector Commitment to Advancing Cybersecurity Risk
Management ......................................................................................... 10
II. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................... 11
III. BACKGROUND ................................................................................................. 13
A. CSRIC Structure ........................................................................................ 15
B. Leadership Team ...................................................................................... 16
C. Working Group 4 Team Members ............................................................ 16
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE, AND METHODOLOGY ....................................................... 19
A. Objective .................................................................................................. 19
B. Scope ........................................................................................................ 20
C. Methodology ............................................................................................ 21
V. FINDINGS ......................................................................................................... 24
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Findings .............................................................. 24
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Findings .............................................................. 25
C. Use of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or an Equivalent Construct
Findings ................................................................................................. 25
D. Meaningful Indicators Findings ................................................................ 25
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Findings .................. 26
VI. CONCLUSIONS ................................................................................................. 27
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Conclusions ........................................................ 27
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Conclusions ......................................................... 27
C. Use of NIST Cybersecurity Framework or Equivalent Construct Conclusions
.............................................................................................................. 28
D. Meaningful Indicators Conclusions .......................................................... 28
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Conclusions ............ 28
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................................................................... 30
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Recommendations ............................................. 30
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Recommendations.............................................. 30
C. Use of NIST Cybersecurity Framework or Equivalent Construct
Recommendation .................................................................................. 31
D. Meaningful Indicators Recommendations ............................................... 31
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Recommendations . 31
2The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ................................................................................. 33
IX. REPORTS & SEGMENTS .................................................................................... 34
9.1 BROADCAST SEGMENT ......................................................................... 35
9.2 CABLE SEGMENT ................................................................................... 62
9.3 SATELLITE SEGMENT ............................................................................. 91
9.4 WIRELESS SEGMENT ........................................................................... 118
9.5 WIRELINE SEGMENT ........................................................................... 167
9.6 REQUIREMENTS AND BARRIERS TO IMPLEMENTATION ..................... 202
9.7 CYBER ECOSYSTEM AND DEPENDENCIES ............................................ 321
9.8 MEASUREMENT .................................................................................. 355
9.9 SMALL AND MEDIUM BUSINESS ......................................................... 370
9.10 TOP CYBER THREATS AND VECTORS ................................................. 398
3The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CSRIC IV Working Group 4 (WG4) was given the task of developing voluntary mechanisms that
give the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the public assurance that
communication providers are taking the necessary measures to manage cybersecurity risks
across the enterprise.1 WG4 also was charged with providing implementation guidance to help
communication providers use and adapt the voluntary NIST Cybersecurity Framework2
(hereinafter “NIST CSF”).
Working Group 4 began its work shortly after the Communications Sector3 completed a highly
collaborative, multi‐stakeholder process that resulted in the NIST CSF Version 1.04 that was
called for in the President’s Executive Order 13636 – Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity.5 The sector’s participation in CSRIC WG4 was seen as an opportunity to assume
the leadership urged by FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler in a speech delivered to the American
Enterprise Institute in June 2014.6 By building on the cross‐sector NIST CSF and by framing its
applicability to five major communications industry segments, the Working Group was able to
formulate and commit to several voluntary mechanisms that provide the macro‐level
assurances sought by the FCC. Moreover, these mechanisms, combined with the insights, tools,
guidance, and fact‐based analyses developed by over 100 cybersecurity professionals who
participated in a year‐long effort to produce this report, validate the advantages of a non‐
regulatory approach over a prescriptive and static compliance regime.7
WG4 organized itself into five segment subgroups representing the five key parts of the
communication industry. Their representatives were encouraged to pursue independent
evaluations of the CSRIC WG4 charge based on their own operating environments. The five
segments included:
1 See Federal Communications Commission, CSRIC IV Working Group Descriptions and Leadership (2013), available
at http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/wg_descriptions.pdf.
2 See National Institute for Standards and Technology, Framework for Improving Cybersecurity, 79 FR 9167 (Feb.
18, 2014) [hereinafter NIST CSF], available at http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity‐
framework‐021214.pdf.
3 For purposes of this report, the “Communications Sector” is comprised of five industry segments including
broadcast, cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline network service providers.
4 See NIST CSF.
5 See Exec. Order No. 13,691, Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing, 80 FR 9347 (Feb. 13,
2015) [hereinafter EO 13691].
6 See Remarks of FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, American Enterprise Institute, June 12, 2014, available at
http://www.fcc.gov/document/chairman‐wheeler‐american‐enterprise‐institute‐washington‐dc [hereinafter
Chairman Wheeler’s Remarks] (“[T]he network ecosystem must step up to assume new responsibility and market
accountability for managing cyber risks.”).
7 Id. (statement of Chairman Tom Wheeler) (“[W]e cannot hope to keep up if we adopt a prescriptive regulatory
approach. We must harness the dynamism and innovation of competitive markets to fulfill our policy and develop
solutions. We are therefore challenging private sector stakeholders to create a “new regulatory paradigm” of
business‐driven cybersecurity risk management.”).
4The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Broadcast: There are more than 15,000 radios and 1,700 televisions broadcasting
facilities in the United States, providing news, emergency information and other
programming services over the air to consumers.8
 Cable: The cable industry is composed of approximately 7,791 cable systems9 that offer
analog and digital video programming services, digital telephone service, and high‐
speed Internet access service.
 Satellite: Satellite communications systems use a combination of space‐based
infrastructure and ground equipment capable of delivering data, voice, video, and
broadcast communications to any person in the U.S., its territories, and anywhere on
the globe.
 Wireless: The Wireless industry delivers advanced wireless broadband services that
include data, voice and video to more than 335 million active wireless‐devices
nationwide, including more than 175 million smartphones, 25 million tablets, and 51
million data‐only devices.10 There are approximately 160 facilities‐based wireless
carriers11 in United States that operate and maintain more than 304,360 cell sites12 that
collectively provide the most advanced 4G technology deployment in the world.
 Wireline: Over 1,000 companies offer wireline, facilities‐based communications services
in the United States.13 Wireline companies serve as the backbone of the Internet.
WG4 also established five “feeder” subgroups to engage in a deeper, more focused analysis of
subject matter areas that would help the communications sector segments evaluate their
cybersecurity risk environment, posture, and tolerance. To ensure that the voluntary
mechanisms and sector guidance were grounded in facts, thoughtful judgments, and practical
in their design, the following “feeder” topics were examined:
 Cyber Ecosystem and Dependencies
 Top Threats and Vectors
 Framework Requirements and Barriers
8 National Association of Broadcasters, Legislative Priorities 111th Congress, 4, available at
http://nab.org/documents/advocacy/NAB_111th_Legislative_Priorities.pdf.
9 See U.S. Communications Sector Coordinating Council, The Communications Sector, http://www.commscc.org/
(last visited March 13, 2015).
10 Cellular Telephone Industries Association (CTIA), Wireless Industry Indices Report ‐ Year‐End 2013 133 (June
2014).
11 Federal Communications Commission, Local Telephone Competition: Status as of December 31, 2013, 29 (Oct.
2014), available at http://transition.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2015/db0219/DOC‐329975A1.pdf.
12 Cellular Telephone Industries Association (‘CTIA’), Wireless Annual Wireless Industry Survey,
http://www.ctia.org/your‐wireless‐life/how‐wireless‐works/annual‐wireless‐industry‐survey (last visited Mar. 13
2015).
13 See id.
5The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Small and Medium Businesses
 Measurements
Each of the segment subgroups, informed by the findings of the topical feeder subgroups,
evaluated the applicability of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework’s 98 subcategories to their
segment, prioritized the applicable subcategories on an illustrative basis, and assessed the
challenges of implementation and effectiveness for each applicable subcategory. The segment
and feeder subgroup findings and resulting NIST Cybersecurity Framework implementation
guidance are contained in the appendices to this report.
The key macro‐level assurances developed by WG4 were designed to demonstrate how
communications providers are appropriately managing cybersecurity risks through the
application of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, or an equivalent construct. The FCC
described the desired characteristics of the assurances as:14
 Tailored by individual companies to suit their unique needs, characteristics, and risks;
 Based on meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management; and
 Allowing for meaningful assessments both internally and externally.
A. Voluntary Mechanisms
As evidence of the Communications Sector’s commitment to enhance cybersecurity risk
management capabilities across the sector and the broader ecosystem, and to promote use
of the NIST CSF, CSRIC recommends three new voluntary mechanisms to provide the
appropriate macro‐level assurances:
 FCC initiated confidential company‐specific meetings, or similar communication
formats to convey their risk management practices. The meetings would be covered
by protections afforded under the Protected Critical Infrastructure Information
(PCII)15 administered by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS);
 A new component of the Communications Sector Annual Report that focuses on
segment‐specific cybersecurity risk management, highlighting efforts to manage
cybersecurity risks to the core critical infrastructure; and
 Active and dedicated participation in DHS’ Critical Infrastructure Cyber Community
C3 Voluntary Program,16 to help industry increase cybersecurity risk management
awareness and use of the Framework.
14 See supra note 1, at 4.
15 See Department of Homeland Security, Protected Critical Information Program, http://www.dhs.gov/protected‐
critical‐infrastructure‐information‐pcii‐program (last visited Mar. 13, 2015) [hereinafter PCII Program].
16 See Department of Homeland Security, About the Critical Infrastructure Cyber Community C³ Voluntary Program,
http://www.dhs.gov/about‐critical‐infrastructure‐cyber‐community‐c%C2%B3‐voluntary‐program (last visited Mar.
13, 2015) [hereinafter DHS C3 Voluntary Program].
6The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
1) Confidential Company‐Specific Meetings: The sector supports the development of
a voluntary program for periodic meetings, or an alternative means of
communications among the FCC, DHS, and individual companies that agree to
participate. The purpose of these meetings would be to discuss efforts by the
organizations to develop risk management practices consistent with the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework or equivalent constructs. During the meetings, the
participating companies would share information regarding cyber threats or attacks
on their critical infrastructure, and the organizations’ effort to respond or recover
from such threats or attacks. Companies that choose to participate in this program
would be afforded the protections that are given by the federal government to
critical infrastructure owners and operators under the PCII program or a legally
sustainable equivalent. This voluntary mechanism represents a new level of industry
commitment intended to promote additional transparency, visibility, and dialogue
with appropriate government partners and our regulator in the area of cybersecurity
risk management.
2) Sector Annual Report: The Sector recognizes that the increasing frequency,
sophistication, and destructive nature of cyber‐attacks spurs concerns about what
companies are doing to manage their cybersecurity risks. WG4 initiated the
“Measurement” subgroup to analyze how to best demonstrate the overall state of
cybersecurity within the communications sector. The Measurement subgroup
recommends that the Communications Sector Coordinating Council (CSCC), as the
official interface for the sector can include information on the cybersecurity of
critical communications network infrastructure in future drafts of the Sector Annual
Report (SAR) starting in 2015. The SAR would then be provided to DHS, which is the
communications sector’s SSA, and the Government Coordinating Council (GCC),
which includes the FCC. This new voluntary mechanism reflects a material
enhancement to the existing SAR because it would provide greater insight into the
threats posed to the sector, and the actions taken to ensure continued availability of
the core network infrastructure and the critical services that depend on its
availability and integrity.
3) Active Participation in DHS C3Outreach and Education: The Department of
Homeland Security oversees a program that it created in response to a directive
contained in Executive Order 13636. DHS created the Critical Infrastructure Cyber
Community C³ Voluntary Program as part of what it describes as an “innovative
public‐private partnership designed to help align critical infrastructure owners and
operators with existing resources that will assist their efforts to adopt the
Cybersecurity Framework and manage their cyber risks.”17 The Program emphasizes
three C’s:
17 See DHS C3 Voluntary Program.
7The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Converging critical infrastructure community resources to support
cybersecurity risk management and resilience through use of the Framework;
 Connecting critical infrastructure stakeholders to the national resilience effort
through cybersecurity resilience advocacy, engagement, and awareness; and
 Coordinating critical infrastructure cross sector efforts to maximize national
cybersecurity resilience.
The Communications Sector has already participated in development activities and was recently
featured in the first of a series of C³ webinars where CSRIC Working Group 4 activities were
described.18 To advance the use of the Framework through the implementation guidance
contained in this report and from other sources, the communications sector will develop a
series of webinars and other reference materials. The goal is to increase awareness by sector
enterprises, guide their use of the NIST CSF and explain the innovative processes, solutions, and
lessons learned from the communication sector’s leaders in using the Framework.
B. Guidance to Individual Companies on the Use of the NIST Framework
Charged with providing implementation guidance to facilitate the use and adaptation of the
voluntary NIST Cybersecurity Framework by communications providers, the WG4 members
developed and applied a variety of analytical tools and methods that could serve as a
primer for companies when reviewing their own risk management processes. The NIST CSF
Version 1.0 offers organizations direction when they are implementing or enhancing their
cybersecurity risk management program. In addition, the report provides informative
references that include leading cybersecurity protocols, resources, and tools. NIST
emphasized the “voluntary” nature of the Framework, noting that it is designed to use
“business drivers to guide cybersecurity activities” and to “manage cybersecurity risk in a
cost‐effective way based on business needs without placing additional regulatory
requirements on businesses.”19
While this report incorporates findings, conclusions, and recommendations related to
guiding individual companies on the use of the Framework, many communications
companies have long‐standing and mature cybersecurity risk management capabilities and
others within the communications sector did not wait for this report to be finalized before
beginning their evaluation of the applicability of the Framework components to their
enterprise. Reducing cybersecurity risk by implementing widely recognized standards and
guidelines20 has been a hallmark of communications industry practice, and is supported by
18 See Department of Homeland Security, C Cubed Voluntary Program, https://share.dhs.gov/p1qqp8dvu34/ (last
visited Mar. 13, 2015).
19 See NIST CSF.
20 See Government Accountability Office, Critical Infrastructure Protection – Cybersecurity Guidance is Available,
but More Can Be Done to Promote Its Use (Dec. 2011), available at http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/587529.pdf.
8The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
exceptionally high levels of service availability.21 Notwithstanding this fact, the NIST
Framework is a seminal document in organizing risk management activities across a broad
global landscape. Over 100 professionals from across the communications sector and the
broader stakeholder community have worked tirelessly over the past 12 months to produce
a report with recommendations on Framework use which should have immediate and
practical value for individual sector companies and other key stakeholders.
1) Governance: The NIST Framework emphasizes the importance of taking a holistic
approach to cybersecurity, viewing it as an enterprise‐wide, strategic risk
management matter, rather than as a narrow information technology (IT) or
network management domain.
When managing cybersecurity risks, it is essential to incorporate a risk governance
process into the program. The key objective is to ensure that an inclusive,
independent, and holistic assessment of the current and future enterprise risk
posture is routinely undertaken, and to align the enterprise’s business mission with
sound and effective cybersecurity practices, protocols, and tools. For many
companies, establishment of a dedicated cross‐enterprise cybersecurity risk
governance function can facilitate this key objective. Such a governance authority
should be sufficiently representative of the organization to achieve the following:
 Identify potential risks and a variety of risk tolerance perspectives;
 Apply independence and authority to risk management activities;
 Ensure transparency through the risk decision making and implementation
process;
 Define and communicate the enterprise’s risk tolerance; and
 Continually adapt and assess cybersecurity risk management goals and
objectives.
While the specific structure and operational practices of these governing bodies can
and will vary among individual companies, the foundational principle is that every
company should treat cybersecurity as a key component of overall enterprise risk
management.
2) NIST CSF Implementation Recommendations: The WG4 industry segment subgroup
reports in the appendices to this report provide concrete guidance on how to use
the Framework can bolster cyber readiness. Each WG4 segment subgroup report
surveys infrastructure core assets and critical services, and also employs use cases,
all with the aim of offering guidance in how to incorporate the risk management
21 See Federal Communications Commission, Network Outage Reporting System (NORS),
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/services/cip/nors/nors.html (last visited Mar. 13, 2015) (a web‐based filing system
through which communications providers covered by C.F.R. Part 4 reporting rules submit outage reports to the
FCC, and allows the FCC to perform analyses and studies of the communications disruptions reported).
9The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
protocols and practices referenced in the Framework with the operating
environment of the respective industry segment.
In addition to the segment‐specific guidance provided to broadcast, cable, satellite,
wireless and wireline companies through the industry segment subgroup reports,
WG4 also developed cyber risk management recommendations that apply to the
sector across‐the‐board.
Companies are urged to:
 Review the WG4 report and use its analytical process to adapt the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework approach to cybersecurity risk management to
their own operations and networks;
 Distribute the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and appropriate components of
the WG 4 report to company officers and personnel whose duties encompass
cybersecurity management and operations;
 Ensure that operators and vendors in every layer of the TCP/IP model
conduct their operations with cybersecurity diligence, to prevent and
respond to attacks on their networks and operational support systems; and
 Recognize that threat knowledge is power and consider adopting a threat
intelligence handling model22 to enhance protection of critical infrastructure.
This includes sharing more detailed threat intelligence information with
trusted stakeholders to improve information gathering for use in threat
analyses and cyber risk management decision‐making.
C. Communication Sector Commitment to Advancing Cybersecurity Risk Management
While this WG4 CSRIC report represents a major milestone, the WG4 members
acknowledge that we are not at the finish line. Efforts to help enterprises manage
cybersecurity risk must be continuous and ongoing to adapt to a continually changing
ecosystem and threat landscape. While the sector will actively promote use of the
Framework through ongoing and anticipated work in multiple venues, the Working Group
members are also cognizant that each enterprise must decide how to utilize and implement
the Framework or an equivalent risk management construct. The mechanisms and
assurances highlighted below are intended to demonstrate the sector’s commitment to
industry‐led solutions based on close collaboration with our government partners and
regulators.
22 See Infra §9.10 Threat Intelligence Handling Model.
10The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
II. INTRODUCTION
Working Group 4 marked a fundamental CSRIC shift to a risk management construct that aligns
with the five functions identified in the NIST Framework (i.e., Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond
and Recover). Many in government and the private sector have come to understand that the
traditional multi‐year CSRIC review cycles can no longer keep pace with the accelerating
deployment of new network and edge technologies across the ecosystem along with the rapid
advancements in increasingly inexpensive, perishable, and more sophisticated cyber threats.
With the issuance of the 2013 Presidential Executive Order 13636, “Improving Cybersecurity
Critical Infrastructure,” and the subsequent 2014 release of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
Version 1.0, there is renewed emphasis on cybersecurity risk management as the foundation
for protecting our nation’s critical infrastructure. The U.S. government has clearly endorsed
development of a voluntary, risk‐based model that enables organizations to prioritize and
implement solutions based on informed, enterprise‐tailored, business‐driven considerations.
The government acknowledged that cost‐effectiveness is an important consideration when
evaluating new security measures and recognizes that incentives may be required in certain
circumstances. It is also generally acknowledges that meaningful methods to assess the costs
and benefits of cybersecurity investment are often elusive.
In a June 2014 speech to the American Enterprise Institute, FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler
endorsed the risk management approach stating that “...companies must have the capacity to
assure themselves, their shareholders and boards – and their nation – of the sufficiency of their
own cyber risk management practices. These risk assessment approaches will undoubtedly
differ company by company. But regardless of the specific approach a company might choose,
it is crucial that companies develop methodologies that give them a meaningful understanding
of their risk exposure and risk management posture that can be communicated internally and
externally. That is what we are asking our stakeholders to do.”23
To set a path for widespread use of risk management processes by sector enterprises, WG4
studied the Framework components and the factors that are most likely to impact enterprise‐
level risk management decisions. The project was structured around five independent industry
segments based on their common operating environments and architectures. The segments
included Broadcast, Cable, Satellite, Wireless, and Wireline. Each segment made its own
determination as to what critical infrastructure should be categorized as “in‐scope” or “out‐of‐
scope” and which of the NIST categories and sub‐categories were most critical to protecting
that infrastructure. Each group chose criteria to prioritize the risk management processes. The
analyses were intended to be illustrative examples of how individual companies in each
segment could go about assessing and prioritizing the framework components.
The industry‐based segments were supported by the five subject‐matter oriented “feeder”
groups. The “Requirements and Barriers” group evaluated the operations and technology
23 See Chairman Wheeler’s Remarks at 7.
11The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
requirements and the barriers associated with each of the 98 NIST sub‐categories. The “Cyber
Ecosystem” group examined the ecosystem dependent landscape for communications
providers and the most prominent threats that are flowing across the Internet stack.24 The
“Top Cyber Threats” team evaluated the evolving threat environment and identified enterprise‐
level processes and a community threat model that could be used by the communications
sector to share information and coordinate response and recovery activities. The
“Measurement” group examined challenges associated with obtaining reliable indicators of
causality (i.e., risk process/risk reduction) and effective mechanisms to address stakeholder
interests in key indicators. And, since many providers classify as small and medium sized
enterprises, the “Small and Medium Business” group looked at their unique challenges and
provided guidance on Framework related approaches suitable for such organizations.
The Communications Sector continues to be a leader in cybersecurity because providers offer a
broad array of communication services to some of the most demanding customers in the world.
For all communication providers, ensuring the integrity and resilience of their networks and the
availability of services is a mission critical responsibility. Meaningful indicators of critical service
availability, reliability, resiliency, and integrity show their success in this arena.
However, across the broad spectrum of providers there is a range of risk management
capabilities that may often be associated with providers’ ability to recover the cost of
cybersecurity investment in a highly competitive market. While enterprise size is often
associated with risk management capabilities, it is not always the only factor. In fact, an
organization’s unique threat environment, its understanding of vulnerabilities, its business
strategy, and its overall tolerance of risk can influence investment decisions.
This report provides a valuable roadmap for companies in our sector to validate their existing
risk management processes and/or enhance their capabilities based on an ongoing evaluation
of their threats, vulnerabilities, and risk tolerance. The feeder subgroup’s contributions,
including their analyses, findings, and implementation guidance, along with the segment
subgroups’ implementation guidance and assessment of the applicability of the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework’s 98 subcategories to each segment, are presented as appendices to
this report and can be used by companies, large and small, to further guide their use of the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework in managing their cybersecurity risks. Equally important, the WG4
members propose a set of “voluntary mechanisms” and FCC recommendations that leverage
the communication sectors’ existing organizational structure, experience, and cybersecurity risk
management sector leadership to provide the requested macro‐level assurances. The report
concludes by suggesting the FCC coordinate with other departments and agencies to promote
education and awareness of the cybersecurity risks inherent in critical communications
infrastructures, and promote the voluntary steps the communication sector takes to manage
their cybersecurity risks.
24 See Wikipedia, Structure of the Internet: TCP IP protocol stack, http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/A‐
level_Computing/AQA/Computer_Components,_The_Stored_Program_Concept_and_the_Internet/Structure_of_t
he_Internet/TCP_IP_protocol_stack (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
12The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
III. BACKGROUND
On February 12, 2013, President Obama issued Executive Order 13636, “Improving Critical
Infrastructure Cybersecurity,”25 which set in motion a wide range of government initiatives
designed to advance the nation’s cybersecurity resiliency. In its policy introduction, the Order
articulated societal values to be promoted and reinforced the public‐private partnership
construct as the mechanism for making progress:
“It is the policy of the United States to enhance the security and resilience of the
Nation's critical infrastructure and to maintain a cyber environment that encourages
efficiency, innovation, and economic prosperity while promoting safety, security,
business confidentiality, privacy, and civil liberties. We can achieve these goals through
a partnership with the owners and operators of critical infrastructure to improve
cybersecurity information sharing and collaboratively develop and implement risk‐based
standards.”26
A key component of the President’s Executive Order was the assignment given to the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce,
to lead the development of a “Cybersecurity Framework” to reduce cyber risks to critical
infrastructure. Critical infrastructure is defined as, “…systems and assets, whether physical or
virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and
assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public
health or safety, or any combination of those matters.”27
NIST was given a list of what should be included in the final Framework and had one year to
complete its work. The Order gave explicit instructions regarding the characteristics of the
Framework and how it was to be used:
“The Cybersecurity Framework shall provide a prioritized, flexible, repeatable,
performance‐based, and cost‐effective approach, including information security
measures and controls, to help owners and operators of critical infrastructure identify,
assess, and manage cyber risk. The Cybersecurity Framework shall focus on identifying
cross‐sector security standards and guidelines applicable to critical infrastructure. The
Cybersecurity Framework will also identify areas for improvement that should be
addressed through future collaboration with particular sectors and standards‐
developing organizations. To enable technical innovation and account for
organizational differences, the Cybersecurity Framework will provide guidance that is
technology neutral and that enables critical infrastructure sectors to benefit from a
competitive market for products and services that meet the standards, methodologies,
25 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
26 Id. at §1: Policy.
27 Id. at §2: Critical Infrastructure.
13The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
procedures, and processes developed to address cyber risks. The Cybersecurity
Framework shall include guidance for measuring the performance of an entity in
implementing the Cybersecurity Framework.”28
To encourage use of the Cybersecurity Framework, the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) was ordered to establish a voluntary program to support owners and operators of
critical infrastructure (“and any other interested entities”) that wanted to use the Framework
as part of an existing or new risk management program. Sector‐Specific Agencies were
instructed to coordinate with the Sector Coordinating Councils to “…review the Cybersecurity
Framework and, if necessary, develop implementation guidance or supplemental materials to
address sector‐specific risks and operating environments.”29
The Communications Sector organized its participation in the Framework development effort
through the CSCC, and Council representatives participated in all six NIST workshops held at
major research universities throughout the country.30 Industry representatives participated
on panels, submitted comments, and had extensive dialogue with the Framework
development team.
On February 12, 2014, NIST released the Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure
Version 1.031 stating that it “…enables organizations – regardless of size, degree of
cybersecurity risk, or cybersecurity sophistication – to apply the principles and best practices of
risk management to improving the security and resilience of critical infrastructure.”32 The
authors noted that the “Framework is not a one‐size‐fits all approach to managing
cybersecurity risk for critical infrastructure. Organizations will continue to have unique risks –
different threats, different vulnerabilities, and different risk tolerances – and how they
implement the practices in the Framework will vary.”33 The Cybersecurity Framework provides
guidance on how it can be used by an organization to enhance an existing program or to create
a new risk management program.
The Framework initiative was aligned with the efforts of the FCC’s Communications Security
Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV. The CSRIC IV charter called for an update of
the cybersecurity best practices that had been developed as part of CSRIC II Working Group 2A:
Cyber Security Best Practices. That effort ended in March 2011 and produced 397 best
practices covering a wide range of technology platforms and services.34 At the urging of
28 Id. at §7: Baseline Framework to Reduce Cyber Risk to Critical Infrastructure.
29 Id. §8: Voluntary Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity Program.
30 See National Institute of Standards and Technology, Cybersecurity Framework ‐ Workshops and Events,
http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/cybersecurity‐framework‐events.cfm (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
31 See NIST CSF.
32 Id. at 1.
33 Id. at 2.
34 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
II, Working Group 2A Cybersecurity Best Practices – Final Report (2011), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/WG2A‐Cyber‐Security‐Best‐Practices‐Final‐Report.pdf.
14The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
industry representatives, the FCC agreed that CSRIC IV Working Group 4 should begin work
immediately following the February 2014 release of the Framework because industry was a
significant contributor of resources to the multi‐stakeholder collaborative process that was
being coordinated by NIST. It was also understood that the subsequent CSRIC IV Working
Group 4 effort would benefit from being informed by the NIST process and final product.
To effectively execute a project of this scope, the Working Group Co‐Chairs established a
Leadership Team to ensure that qualified resources were appropriately applied to work efforts
and that the work products aligned with the overall objectives of the effort. This Leadership
Team evolved to include 20 individuals that served as segment and feeder group leaders and a
Technical and Policy Advisory Board that included senior representatives from NIST, the White
House National Security Office, and the FCC. With over 100 volunteers representing the five
major industry segments as well as stakeholders from other sectors, academia, and state and
federal government, this was the largest Working Group effort undertaken in the history of the
CSRIC and the Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC) (i.e., CSRIC’s predecessor).
A. CSRIC Structure
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council (CSRIC) IV
CSRIC Steering Committee
Chair or Chair or Chair or Chair or Co‐ Chair or Chair or Co‐ Chair or Chair or Chair or Co‐ Chair or
Co‐Chairs: Co‐Chairs: Co‐ Chairs: Co‐ Chairs: Co‐ Co‐Chairs: Chairs: Co‐
Working Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Chairs: Working Working Chairs:
Group 1 Group 2 Working Group 4 Working Group 6 Working Group 8 Group 9 Working
Group 3 Group 5 Group 7 Group 10
Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working Working
Group 1: Group 2: Group Group 4: Group 5: Group 6: Long‐ Group 7: Group 8: Group 9: Group
Next Wireless 3: EAS Cybersecurity Server‐ Term Core Legacy Submarine Infrastructure 10: CPE
Generation Emergency Risk Based Internet Best Cable Sharing Powering
911 Alerts Management DDoS Protocol Practice Landing During
and Best Attacks Improvements Updates Sites Emergencies
Practices
15The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Leadership Team
C. Working Group 4 Team Members
Working Group 4 consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Robert Mayer (Co‐Chair) USTelecom Association
Brian Allen (Co‐Chair) TWCable
Donna Dodson (Senior Tech Advisor) National Institute of Standards and Technology
Emily Talaga (Senior Economic Advisor) Federal Communication Commission
Vern Mosley (FCC Liaison) Federal Communication Commission
Adrienne Abbott Nevada EAS Chair
Anthony Acosta Northrop Grumman
Michael Alagna Motorola Solutions
Carl Anderson Van Sco Yoc Associates
16The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Nadya Bartol Utilities Telecom Council
James Bean Juniper Networks
Chris Boyer AT&T
Chuck Brownawell Sprint Corporation
Lois Burns PA Public Utility Commission
Ingrid Caples Department of Health and Human Services
Joel Capps Ericsson
Lisa Carnahan NIST
Dan Cashman FairPoint
Nneka Chiazor Verizon
Larry Clinton Internet Security Alliance
Edward Czarnecki Monroe‐Electronics
Kate Dean USISPA
Paul Diamond CenturyLink
Martin Dolly AT&T (representing ATIS)
Tanner Doucet Internet Security Alliance
Seton Droppers PBS Technology & Operations
Victor Einfeldt Iridium
Russell Eubanks Cox Communications, Inc
Paul Ferguson Internet Identity
Inette Furey Department of Homeland Security
Andrew Gallo George Washington University
Chris Garner CenturyLink
Michael Geller Cisco (representing ATIS)
My K. Gomi NTT America
Jessica Gulick CSG International
Stacy Hartman CenturyLink
Mary Haynes Charter
Chris Homer PBS
Charles Hudson, Jr Comcast
Wink Infinger Florida Department of Management Services
Chris Jeppson Consolidated
17The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Susan Joseph CableLabs
Franck Journoud Oracle
Merike Kaeo Internet Identity
Kevin Kastor Consolidated
John Kelly Comcast
Danielle Kriz Information Technology Industry Council
Rick Krock Alcatel‐Lucent
Jeremy Larson SilverStar
Greg Lucak Windstream
Ethan Lucarelli Wiley Rein LLP
Daniel Madsen US Bank
John Marinho CTIA
Heath E. McGinnis Verizon
Donna Bethea Murphy Iridium
Paul Nguyen CSG International
Jorge Nieves Comcast
Michael O'Reirdan Comcast (representing MAAWG)
Martin Pitson Telesat
Joel Rademacher Iridium
J. Bradford Ramsay NARUC
Alan Rinker Boeing
Chris Roosenraad TWCable
Tony Sager Council on Cybersecurity
Harold Salters T‐Mobile
Brian Scarpelli TIA Online
Karl Schimmeck SIFMA
J. J. Shaw O3b Government
Ray Singh ACS
Tom Soroka USTelecom Association
Craig Spiezle Online Trust Alliance (OTA)
Matt Starr CompTIA
Bill Taub Cablevision Systems Corporation
18The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Robert Thornberry Bell Labs/Alcatel‐Lucent
Sheila Tipton Iowa Utilities Board
Matt Tooley NCTA
Bill Trelease CTO Delhi Telephone Company
Colin Troha CSG Invotas
S. Rao Vasireddy Alcatel‐Lucent (TIA representative)
Joe Viens TWCable
Christian Vogler Gallaudet University
Jesse Ward NTCA
Errol Weiss Citi
Kathy Whitbeck Nsight/Cellcom
Jack Whitsitt National Electric Sector Cybersecurity Organization
Kelly Williams National Association of Broadcasters (NAB)
Shawn Wilson VeriSign
Pamela A. Witmer PA Public Utility Commission
Shinichi Yokohama NTT
Table 1 ‐ List of Working Group Members
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE, AND METHODOLOGY
A. Objective
The NIST Framework was designed as a multi‐sector baseline document that individual
sectors could tailor in ways that might make it more relevant and useful to organizations
operating within their sector. In the case of the expansive communications sector, a
segment‐specific analysis was deemed to be more productive (i.e., broadcast, cable,
satellite, wireless, and wireline segments). Consequently WG4 participants focused on
developing segment‐specific cyber risk management approaches and guidance that would
serve as a foundation for producing the assurances called for in the CSRIC IV Working Group
4 description. As outlined below, the Working Group’s assurances and recommendations
build upon the foundational work in the Framework Version 1.0 and are supported by fact‐
based analyses and informed judgments in areas that are critical to the ability of the
communications sector and enterprises to evolve their cybersecurity risk management
profiles.
Working Group 4’s efforts were designed to provide individual service providers an ability to
assure themselves, their shareholders or owners, their boards, and external stakeholders
that they are taking appropriate steps to manage cybersecurity risk. While individual
19The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
enterprises are given flexibility on how they use the Framework, Working Group 4 focused
on tailoring the Framework to the unique considerations of the segments and providing
macro‐level analyses and mechanisms to sustain risk‐management capabilities.
B. Scope
Working Group 4 was tasked with producing a practical, cost‐effective, and
segment‐tailored model of risk management with meaningful indicators to communicate
assurances to internal and external stakeholders. To facilitate sector‐wide use of the
framework or an alternative risk management construct, it was necessary to evaluate the
five Framework functions, 22 categories, 98 sub‐categories, and the factors that would
impact an enterprises’ decision to adopt or enhance a particular risk management process.
Additionally, the Working Group developed, tested, and utilized an analytical template that
an enterprise could adopt to prioritize its risk management activities based on a critical
examination of considerations that would be relevant to its unique circumstances.
20The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
C. Methodology
The project methodology was designed to provide strong factual and analytical
underpinnings to support service provider’s cybersecurity risk management activities. The
project was structured as an iterative process to ensure that segment analyses were
constantly evaluated as new feeder group input was received. That process is illustrated
below.
Figure 1 ‐ Segment Analysis Process
The effort began with the development of an analytical template that each of the segments
used to evaluate how the Framework’s structure might be applied to an enterprise
operating in its segment.
The segment teams were first asked to determine whether a particular Framework
Function, Category or Sub‐Category was deemed to be “in‐scope or out‐of‐scope” for
purposes of prioritizing risk management processes. The five segments relied on work
completed as part of the 2012 National Sector Risk Assessment for Communications, which
examined the common operating environments of the five segments and identified core
infrastructure and associated critical services. Each segment made an independent
determination as to which Framework Categories and sub‐categories met the criteria for
being identified as in or out‐of‐scope. The flexibility afforded to the segment teams was
21The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
consistent with the Framework’s emphasis on flexibility and was designed to be illustrative
for individual companies that might make similar scoping determinations.
Figure 2 – Segment Scoping Analysis
Once a process was determined to be in‐scope, the next analytical component was
identification and ranking of criteria. Segments were free to select relevant criteria among
a set that included the criticality of a particular process, the difficulty associated with
implementing a particular process, and how effective it could be in mitigating cybersecurity
risk.
Figure 3 – Segment Identification and Ranking of Criteria
How to prioritize Framework processes rested on work that was developed by the feeder
groups. Once a determination was made regarding the “criticality” of a particular process, a
structured basis for determining difficulty was developed by the “Requirements and
Barriers” Feeder Group. For each of the 98 sub‐categories included in the Framework, a
team reviewed the operational and technological requirements associated with
22The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
implementing that specific risk management process. Understanding these requirements
and the potential barriers or challenges for organizations of varying size and scope was
critical to making supportable arguments around difficulty.
Figure 4 – Requirements and Barriers
23The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. FINDINGS
Working Group 4 strived to do more than just develop a tool that communication providers can
use to adapt the Framework in a voluntary, prioritized, and cost‐effective fashion. The Working
Group endeavored to break new ground in understanding cybersecurity risk management. As
such, teams were established to address the unique considerations of small and medium
enterprises in the sector, the ecosystem and dependencies that impacted risk, the threats and
ways in which organizations can evolve capabilities as new threats arise, the barriers to
implementing successful risk management regimes, and the appropriate mechanisms and
measures to address a dynamic set of cyber conditions. This report demonstrates the
communication sector’s capability to address the evolving cyber threat through voluntary
collaboration. This position is supported by the ongoing level of critical service availability,
reliability, and resiliency across the communications industry.
The findings, as are the conclusions and recommendations, are organized around the five key
areas of the Working Group 4 charge:35 (1) macro‐level assurances, (2) voluntary mechanisms,
(3) use of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or an equivalent construct, (4) meaningful
indicators of successful cyber risk management, and (5) communications sector implementation
guidance for using the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Findings
The following summary findings address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐
level assurance that communications providers are taking the necessary corporate and
operational measures to manage cybersecurity risks.
 CSRIC found that adapting the voluntary Framework is an effective way to manage
cybersecurity risk.
 Communications sector members share detailed threat intelligence information with
appropriate stakeholders, within the confines of existing law.
 Work is underway on the incentives category that is recognized in EO 13636 as an
essential factor in improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity.
 Communications sector members are taking steps to advance their cybersecurity risk
management practices, although variations exist with respect to levels of program
development and implementation.
 The communications sector organizes its strategic, planning and operational
cybersecurity activities through three respective entities: the National Security
Telecommunications Advisory Council (NSTAC), the Communications Sector
Coordinating Council (CSCC)/Government Coordinating Council (GCC), and the
Communications Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Comm‐ISAC).
35 See supra note 1, at 4.
24The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Small and Medium Businesses (SMBs) have unique circumstances and challenges that
may influence their approach to implementing the Framework and providing macro‐
level assurances.
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Findings
The following summary findings address the Working Group 4 charge to identify voluntary
mechanisms to provide macro‐level assurances.
 A static checklist methodology is not an effective defense, as it is limits the methods and
tactics by which an organization can prepare for or respond to imminent and evolving
threats.
 CSCC/GCC is an effective organizational structure for integrating a new initiative to
evaluate how cybersecurity threats are measured at the sector level.
 Key government stakeholders have a legitimate interest in gaining information about
cybersecurity threats to critical infrastructure and the effectiveness of cybersecurity risk
management practices.
C. Use of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or an Equivalent Construct Findings
The following summary findings address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐
level assurances that demonstrate how communications providers are reducing
cybersecurity risks through the use of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or an equivalent
construct.
 Use of a community model for threat intelligence or information sharing and analysis
can help organizations in their quest to protect their critical infrastructure and critical
data from future cyber threats.
 Use of the voluntary NIST CSF provides a consistent cybersecurity risk management
approach and a common taxonomy to improve internal and external communications
regarding cybersecurity risk management.
 Prior to the NIST CSF, many communications sector members already were actively
engaged in equivalent processes to successfully manage cybersecurity risks.
D. Meaningful Indicators Findings
The following summary findings address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐
level assurances that are based on meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk
management.
 Meaningful indicators of successful (or unsuccessful) cyber risk management focus on
measureable outcomes.
 It is difficult to measure the effectiveness of the communications sector’s cybersecurity
risk management processes in isolation, given its interdependencies on other critical
infrastructure sectors.
25The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Findings
The following summary findings address the Working Group 4 charge to give the
communications sector guidance on how to implement using the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework.
 The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is an effective mechanism to create a new risk
management process or to enhance existing cybersecurity risk management processes.
 Cyber‐attacks have been observed and mapped to every layer of the TCP/IP
communication model, and subsequently against every identified category of the
ecosystem. Cyber‐attacks will continue to occur at every level of the TCP/IP
communications model. It is important that all operators and vendors in every layer of
the TCP/IP model conduct their operations with the appropriate level of cybersecurity
diligence.
 The communications sector is part of a vast interdependent ecosystem that requires
sharing cybersecurity responsibilities among a variety of stakeholders and depends on
multiple non‐communications sector ecosystem entities to make the communications
infrastructure more secure.
 Further outreach is needed to ensure that the SMB community is engaged in the
network risk management discussion generally, and aware of the benefits of the NIST
Framework specifically.
 It is not a matter of “IF” a communications sector member will be attacked, but a matter
of “WHEN” they will be attacked, and that threat knowledge is essential to protect
against attacks.
26The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VI. CONCLUSIONS
The conclusions drawn below align with the key task areas assigned to Working Group 4 and
are supported by a yearlong effort involving substantial inquiries into cybersecurity activities at
the enterprise, segment, and sector levels.
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Conclusions
The following conclusions address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐level
assurance that communications providers are taking the necessary corporate and
operational measures to manage cybersecurity risks.
 No new regulations are needed or warranted to address conformity to the NIST
Framework. Such a regulatory regime would spur a minimum standard, not
maximum effort, and would undermine adaptability and innovation.
 Cyber threat information sharing results in efficient and scalable information that all
parties can use to develop threat analyses and to make cyber risk management
decisions.
 Progress on incentives is necessary to overcome many of the barriers identified in
this report.
 The steps the communications sector members are taking to advance their
cybersecurity risk management practices can be conveyed to relevant stakeholders
with appropriate protections for security and market purposes. The NSTAC,
CSCC/GCC, and Comm‐ISAC are effective venues for information sharing and
collaboration regarding reduction of cybersecurity risks, not only among its
members but with other critical infrastructure sectors and government departments
and agencies that are dependent upon the communications sectors’ critical
infrastructure and services.
 Special considerations and accommodations may be necessary for SMBs to
implement the Framework and provide macro‐level assurances to the FCC and the
public.
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Conclusions
The following conclusions address the Working Group 4 charge to identify voluntary
mechanisms that can be used to provide macro‐level assurances.
 A checklist approach would prioritize compliance over an adaptable security risk‐
based management model that is required to address the evolving cyber threat
landscape.
 Future requests for measurements by government agencies into the impact of
cybersecurity threats to communications infrastructure would be most effectively
managed by the CSCC/GCC.
27The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 The communications sector can make external stakeholders more aware of its
corporate and operational cybersecurity risk management measures through
current communications sector venues that have the requisite protections.
 Voluntary mechanisms, including an industry SAR and periodic meetings with
communications sector members, can provide macro‐level assurance that
communications providers are taking the appropriate measures to manage
cybersecurity risks.
C. Use of NIST Cybersecurity Framework or Equivalent Construct Conclusions
The following conclusions address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐level
assurances that demonstrate how communications providers are managing cybersecurity
risks through the use of the NIST CSF or an equivalent construct.
 The introduction of the NIST CSF represents a major breakthrough in the ability to
communicate cybersecurity risk management principles and processes and can be
effectively employed by the communications sector and applied to other critical
infrastructure sectors.
 The use of the NIST CSF will continue to evolve within the communications sector as
more experience is gained and shared.
 Continued inter‐agency and federal/state coordination and collaboration with
industry in advancing the Framework is needed to avoid fragmentation of industry
and government resources.
D. Meaningful Indicators Conclusions
The following conclusions address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐level
assurances that are based on meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management.
 Individual company malware infection rates, the number of hosted bots, and
customer service complaints are not meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk
management, as they are not outcome‐based measures.
 The availability of the critical infrastructure to deliver critical services is an outcome‐
based measure and therefore a meaningful indicator of successful cyber risk
management. If issues related to availability arise as a consequence of a cyber‐
incident, additional examination into reliability, resiliency, and integrity of core
network critical infrastructure may need to be evaluated.
 Further analysis is required to determine whether a comprehensive and valid set of
cybersecurity effectiveness metrics can be applied on a cross‐sectorial basis.
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Conclusions
The following conclusions address the Working Group 4 charge to give the communications
sector guidance on implementing the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
28The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Communications segment members will benefit from their review of this report and
the analytical processes in the report that they can use to implement the NIST
Framework or an equivalent construct.
 Use of the NIST CSF must remain flexible as “one size does not fit all,” and
companies should use the Framework in a way that is appropriate to their risk
environment, posture, and tolerance.
 The communications sector is effectively advancing the use of the NIST CSF as
evidenced by the industry’s participation in development of this report.
 As evident in this report, small and medium communications sector members have
unique challenges to overcome in the use of the NIST CSF.
 Communications sector members are one component of a vast landscape of
interdependent critical infrastructure ecosystem stakeholders that requires a high
degree of information sharing (consistent with applicable law) and collaboration to
effectively manage cyber risk.
 Use of the voluntary NIST CSF or equivalent risk management construct across all
ecosystem stakeholders will improve cybersecurity risk management.
 As it relates to the use of the NIST CSF, sharing information about experiences and
lessons learned across the ecosystem will facilitate improvements in the further
development of the Framework and cybersecurity risk management generally.
 Communications sector members, as well as other critical infrastructure sectors, can
share detailed threat intelligence information with appropriate stakeholders,
consistent with current law, and thus enable more efficient and scalable threat
information gathering for cyber risk management decision‐making.

As NIST, DHS, the FCC, and industry continue their outreach, they should understand
that a single method of outreach might not be sufficient for an SMB. A multi‐faceted
approach is necessary.
29The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
The following recommendations are consistent with the Federal Advisory Committee Act
(FACA)36 rules under which CSRIC operates. These recommendations were developed with the
intention of working with the FCC and other U.S. government agencies to enhance
cybersecurity risk management competencies and to make useful resources available to
enterprises across the broad communications sector.
A. Macro‐Level Assurance Recommendations
The following recommendations address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐
level assurance that communications providers are taking the necessary corporate and
operational measures to manage cybersecurity risks.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC leverage the resources and capabilities of the three
primary communications sector organizations (i.e. NSTAC, CSCC/GCC, Comm‐ISAC)
to promote voluntary participation in risk management initiatives across all
communications segments and providers.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC promote the sustained voluntary collaboration and
facilitate the sharing of cybersecurity threat information. This can be accomplished
by working with the communications sector members and other relevant agents of
the U.S. government to identify and mitigate technical, operational, financial, and
legal barriers to cyber information sharing.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC further explore the considerations and
accommodations that are required for SMB’s to implement the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework and provide macro‐level assurances to the FCC and the public.
B. Voluntary Mechanisms Recommendations
The following recommendations address the Working Group 4 charge to identify voluntary
mechanisms to provide macro‐level assurances.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC, in partnership with DHS, participate in periodic
meetings with communications sector members, in accordance with PCII
protections,37 to discuss their cybersecurity risk management processes and their
use of the NIST CSF or equivalent construct.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC use the current communications sector
organizational structure within the CSCC/GCC to deliver an industry Sector Annual
Report (SAR) that addresses the effectiveness of communications sector
cybersecurity risk management processes.
36 See General Services Administration, Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) Management Overview,
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104514 (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
37 See PCII Program or another legally sustainable construct.
30The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
C. Use of NIST Cybersecurity Framework or Equivalent Construct Recommendation
This recommendation addresses the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐level
assurances that demonstrate how communications providers are managing cybersecurity
risks through the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or an equivalent construct.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC promote the voluntary use of the NIST CSF among
all communications sector members, large and small, as well as across other critical
infrastructure sectors that are interdependent with the communications sector.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC work to coordinate and rationalize Framework
related federal/state government initiatives to ensure efficient use of critical and
scarce cybersecurity resources.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC further incorporate an understanding of the
changing threat landscape, sector ecosystem dependencies, and harmonization into
previous CSRIC best practices and the NIST CSF.
D. Meaningful Indicators Recommendations
The following recommendations address the Working Group 4 charge to provide macro‐
level assurances that are based on meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk
management.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC adopt availability of the critical communications
infrastructure as the meaningful indicator of cybersecurity risk management.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC leverage the communications sectors’ current
organizational structure (i.e., CIPAC) to deliver an industry Sector Annual Report to
address the proposed meaningful indicator and corporate and operational initiatives
the communications sector is taking to manage cybersecurity risk.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC, in partnership with DHS and NIST, promote
continued industry participation in efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of
cybersecurity risk management processes in all sectors and their impact on the
communications sector.
E. Communications Sector Implementation Guidance Recommendations
The following recommendations address the Working Group 4 charge to provide the
communications sector with guidance for implementing the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC encourage the dissemination of the NIST
Framework and the WG 4 report to appropriate communication sector member
organizations, and in particular, to management and staff with cybersecurity
management and operational responsibilities.
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC continue to collaborate with NIST and DHS in the
further development of the NIST CSF and the promotion of programs to increase the
voluntary use of the CSF.
31The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 CSRIC recommends that the FCC partner with other departments and agencies to
promote education and awareness of the cybersecurity risks inherent in critical
communications infrastructures, and to promote steps that the communications
sector can take to give external stakeholders with macro‐level assurance that these
collective actions are successfully managing cybersecurity risks.
 CSRIC recommends the FCC promote an industry threat intelligence handling model
(referenced in this report), or an equivalent construct by organizations intending to
use threat intelligence to maintain cybersecurity, protect critical infrastructure, and
protect critical data from rapidly evolving cyber threats.
 CSRIC recommends the FCC encourage communications sector members to share
relevant threat intelligence information (consistent with applicable law) with
appropriate stakeholders, thus enabling more efficient and scalable threat
information gathering for use in threat analyses and cyber risk management
decision‐making.
32The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Working Group 4 would like to acknowledge the significant contributions of each of its
members, for without their expertise, participation, analysis, and contributions throughout the
process, the report findings, conclusions, and recommendations contained herein would not
have been possible.
Working Group 4 would also like to acknowledge the segment and feeder subgroup leadership
team, comprised of Kelly Williams, Matt Tooley, John Marinho, Chris Boyer, Donna Bethea
Murphy, Harold Salters, Larry Clinton, Susan Joseph, Jesse Ward, Russell Eubanks, Joe Viens,
Tom Soroka, Brian Scarpelli, and Chris Roosenraad, who led their teams in conducting the
segment and feeder analyses upon which the report’s findings, conclusions, and
recommendations are based.
Working Group 4 would also like to acknowledge the Working Group’s advisors, Donna Dodson,
Lisa Carnahan, Tony Sager, and Emily Talaga, for their expertise, thoughtful advice, and
encouragement throughout the process.
Working Group 4 would also like to acknowledge the FCC liaison to the Working Group, Vern
Mosley, for his substantial support and contributions throughout the process.
Working Group 4 would also like to acknowledge Matt Tooley for his administration of the
Working Group’s box.com account that the Working Group used to collaborate in sharing
information among the Working Group members and in producing the report.
Working Group 4 would also like to thank Robert Mayer, Pat Murray, Deontrea Campbell, and
the many other USTelecom support staff members for hosting the Working Group 4 face‐to‐
face meetings. The Working Group greatly appreciates the significant planning and logistics
that went into hosting the many successful face‐to‐face meetings.
Working Group 4 would also like to acknowledge the skilled expertise and dedication of the
Final Report drafting team comprised of Paul Diamond, Stacy Hartman, Robert Thornberry,
Brian Allen, Robert Mayer, and the segment and feeder subgroup leadership team. Without
their perseverance and attention to detail, the Final Report would not have been possible.
And last but certainly not least, the Working Group 4 members would like to acknowledge and
thank our esteemed Working Group 4 co‐chairs, Robert Mayer and Brian Allen. Their insight,
focus, expertise, outreach across the communications sector, and leadership throughout the
process is evidenced by the quality of the Final Report’s findings, conclusions, and
recommendations.
33The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IX. REPORTS & SEGMENTS
9.1 BROADCAST SEGMENT ................................................................................... 35
9.2 CABLE SEGMENT ............................................................................................ 62
9.3 SATELLITE SEGMENT ...................................................................................... 91
9.4 WIRELESS SEGMENT ..................................................................................... 118
9.5 WIRELINE SEGMENT ..................................................................................... 167
9.6 REQUIREMENTS AND BARRIERS TO IMPLEMENTATION .............................. 202
9.7 CYBER ECOSYSTEM AND DEPENDENCIES ..................................................... 321
9.8 MEASUREMENT ............................................................................................ 355
9.9 SMALL AND MEDIUM BUSINESS .................................................................. 370
9.10 TOP CYBER THREATS AND VECTORS .......................................................... 398
34The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.1 BROADCAST SEGMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
35The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ......................................................................................... 37
II. Introduction .................................................................................................... 37
III. Broadcast Segment Group Members .............................................................. 38
IV. Objective, Scope and Methodology ................................................................ 38
A. Objective .................................................................................................. 38
B. Scope ........................................................................................................ 39
C. Methodology ............................................................................................ 40
V. Results and Findings ........................................................................................ 41
A. Critical Services ........................................................................................ 41
B. Broadcast Ecosystem Architectures ......................................................... 41
VI. Applying the NIST Cybersecurity Framework .................................................. 45
VII.Application Methodology ................................................................................ 46
VIII. Illustrative Use Cases ..................................................................................... 56
A. Broadcast Radio/TV Station/Hub Assessment ......................................... 58
B. Broadcast Networks ‐ Broadcast Firewall ................................................. 60
IX. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................... 61
X. Acknowledgements ......................................................................................... 61
36The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Broadcast Industry Segment subgroup of Working Group 4 (WG4) focused on developing
recommendations that will assist in reducing cybersecurity risk to broadcast critical on‐air
operations through the application of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF).
To accomplish this objective the Broadcast Segment Group’s mission was to provide a roadmap
for broadcasters to align their specific operations to that of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
While the NIST Framework may be used beyond critical infrastructure, the analysis was
primarily focused on critical infrastructure as defined in the Cybersecurity Executive Order. For
broadcasters, this means maintaining on‐air operations in order to deliver news, weather,
critical public warning, and emergency information to the communities that they serve.
Broadcasters do not provide Internet Protocol (IP) network services to others but acquire them
from IP service providers. However, broadcasters’ critical on‐air operations are enabled by IP
networks and have in recent years become more and more dependent upon them. Individual
broadcast companies should consider utilizing the steps outlined in this report to update or
develop their own cyber risk management programs, applying the framework to their own
unique circumstances.
II. INTRODUCTION
The Broadcast Segment is a subgroup within CSRIC IV Working Group 4 focused on developing
recommendations that will assist in reducing cybersecurity risk to broadcast on‐air operations
through the application of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).
The scale of the broadcast industry is fairly unique among the other communications industry
segments. The broadcast industry is diverse, more than 15,000 radio and 1,700 television
broadcasting facilities in the United States, providing news, emergency information and other
programming services free, over the air to consumers. While many of these operations are
broadcast networks and group owed, individual licensees tend to be small to medium sized
operations, with relatively limited Information Technology (IT) support.
The broadcast industry is increasingly characterized by a reliance on the Internet and other IP
based infrastructure for its core on‐air operations. For the past several years, the broadcast
industry has been transformed by a transition to file‐based workflows and increased focused on
IP networking and content delivery. A number of broadcasters continue to expand their
reliance on central casting – concentrating on‐air operations in regional hubs. Also growing
rapidly is the use of “cloud‐based” services by broadcasters, particularly in the areas of
streaming, archiving, editing, transcoding, and content distribution.
In 2012 the Communications Sector, in partnership with the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), completed the 2012 Risk Assessment for Communications (referred to going forward as
the National Sector Risk Assessment or NSRA), updating its 2008 report ,which assessed
physical and cyber threats to the communications infrastructure. The risk assessment was
intended to further the goals of the Communications Sector Specific Plan, also developed jointly
37The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
with DHS in 2010, to identify and protect national critical infrastructure, ensure overall network
reliability, maintain “always‐on” service for critical customers and quickly restore critical
communications functions and services following a disruption.
In order to accomplish the foundational objectives established by the FCC for CSRIC IV WG4, the
Broadcast Segment group sought to develop recommendations which will enable the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework to be conformed in such a way that that it may be used by the
broadcast industry to assess the vulnerability of critical on‐air operations in the context of
critical infrastructure as defined in the Cybersecurity Executive Order38 and the NSRA.
Please note this report does not address security of the Emergency Alert System (EAS) and its
associated ecosystem. EAS security is considered in CSRIC IV Working Group III.39
III. BROADCAST SEGMENT GROUP MEMBERS
Member Company
Adrienne Abbott Nevada Association of Broadcasters
Sohail Anwar National Public Radio
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics, Inc. / Digital Alert Systems
Seton Droppers Public Broadcasting System
Christopher Homer Public Broadcasting Service
Robert Ross CBS Television Network
David Williams National Public Radio
Kelly Williams National Association of Broadcasters
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
A. Objective
CSRIC IV WG4 was tasked with developing voluntary mechanisms that provide macro‐level
assurance to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the public that
communication providers are taking the necessary corporate and operational measures to
manage cybersecurity risks across the enterprise. WG4 also was charged with providing
implementation guidance to facilitate the use and adaptation of the voluntary NIST
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) by communications providers. Consistent with Working
Group 4’s larger objective, the broadcast segment group analyzed the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework version 1.0 from the perspective of the broadcast industry in order to apply the
practices and processes described therein to this segment of the communications sector.
38 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
39 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
III, Working Group 3 Emergency Alert System (EAS) – Initial Report CSRIC WG3 EAS Security Subcommittee Report
(2014), available at http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG‐3_Initial‐Report_061814.pdf.
38The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Scope
Based on the NIST cybersecurity framework in critical infrastructure, the broadcast segment
group focused on identifying the aspects of the broadcast infrastructure that would be
considered critical infrastructure supporting the critical services broadcasters provide.
Based on the definitions of critical infrastructure outlined in the NSRA and Executive Order
13636, the group concluded that it is broadcaster’s role in public alerting and as “first
informers” (i.e. keeping the public informed during time of emergency) that fulfils this
critical infrastructure role. The NSRA communications architecture model illustrating what is
considered critical infrastructure is shown below.
The broadcast segment group agreed with the other Segment groups that the scope of its
efforts should build upon the work already completed in the NSRA, which is to “… ensure
overall network reliability, maintain “always‐on” service for critical customers and quickly
restore critical communications functions and services following a disruption.” Considering
all these factors the Broadcast Sector group concluded that maintaining the on‐air
operations at local, regional and national level was constituted maintaining this segment of
the national critical communications infrastructure.
It is important to note that Broadcasters are consumers of IP based network services and do
not supply IP services to others, as such, they must evaluate the risk and vulnerability of
their assets in the context on maintaining their critical on‐air operations.
39The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
C. Methodology
Starting with the Broadcast architecture model from the NSRA (below), the broadcast
segment analyzed the broadcast ecosystems and developed four architecture models that
are illustrative of the different types of operations in the broadcast segment ‐ Local
Broadcast Station, Small Radio Station, Hubbed (or Central Cast) Operation, and Broadcast
Program Network. These models, described in more detail in Section V, can help
broadcasters identify the critical assets that may require different approaches to application
of the NIST Framework. These critical elements delineate the scope of assets intended to be
protected through the further analysis below.
Commercial Satellite
Local Broadcast Station
(DTV/AM/FM/HD-Radio)
Transmitter Site
Mobile Customer
Satellite Recieve Dishes
Broadcast
STL Antenna
Fiber Back-up
Radio/Television
Station Transmitter Home Custome
Television/Radio
Network Headquarters
Portable Microwave or Satellite
Podestrian Customer
ENG/SNG
STL – Studio to Transmitter link (typically point-to-point fixed microwave or fiber)
ENG – Electronic News Gathering. (local TV news coverage via portable microwave link)
SNG – Satellite News Gathering (local TV news coverage via portable satellite link)
40The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. RESULTS AND FINDINGS
A. Critical Services
The broadcast segment utilized the NIST cybersecurity framework to evaluate its application
to the broadcast sector. Since the broadcast sector provides a service to consumers by
providing news, weather and emergency information through over‐the‐air signals or, in the
case of a program network, via satellite or leased fiber facility, many of the cyber security
concerns may not appear to be applicable.
After careful review, the broadcast segment determined that there are aspects of
broadcasting infrastructure that are IP network based and critical to providing essential
services. Broadcasters are used to carrying mission critical data and information.
Broadcasters must assess which parts of their infrastructure are critical to maintaining on‐
air operations so that they can deliver the following types of essential information to the
public.
1) Emergency Alert Systems (EAS)
New technology in emergency alerting now carry messages from the Federal Emergency
Management Association (FEMA) through IP networks using Common Alerting Protocol
(CAP). Many state and local emergency management organizations have also adopted
CAP protocol messaging distributed via IP over dedicated or public internet. The
broadcaster’s IP networks that carry these critical messages need to be protected
against cyber‐attacks40.
2) News and Weather and Other Emergency Information
Broadcast stations and networks provide essential content in the form of news and
weather and other emergency information, such as evacuation routes or tornado
tracking. Both information and content flow over high speed IP networks within a
broadcast plant to provide integration of News Room Computer Systems (NRCS), audio
and video servers, graphics systems and scheduling/automation systems. The broadcast
network is the “backbone” of the station or network and needs to be carefully managed
for redundancy, reliability and security. Important feeds and wire services that are used
to solely rely on satellite or microwave have also migrated go IP and Long‐Term
Evolution (LTE) networks in order to provide valuable and timely content.
B. Broadcast Ecosystem Architectures
Below are the four architecture models that are illustrative of the different types of
operations in the broadcast segment. Broadcasters can use the model that most closely
40 This report does not address specifics of security for EAS and its associated ecosystem. EAS security is considered
in CSRIC Working Group III.
41The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
resembles their actual infrastructure to identify the assets that require threat analysis and
evaluation when applying the framework to on‐air operations
1) Local Broadcast Station
Broadcast stations include independent, public, educational or state, station groups or
network O&O’s (owned and operated). A broadcast station can be a handful of
employees in a “mom and pop” shop to major market stations with hundreds of
employees. Many functional areas within a station include but are not limited to sales,
programming, traffic, production, news, community affairs, public relations, accounting
and finance, and engineering and operations. Engineering and Operations typically
operates on a 24X7 basis a plays a critical role in providing content for community
service, news, weather, sports, and entertainment for their broadcast market.
2) Local Small Radio Station
Local Radio Stations may not have enterprise level networks as larger broadcasters do,
but there are many areas where the station network connectivity provides critical
services to its audience and would necessitate cyber security measures. This includes
programming source(s) delivered via IP, commercial delivery and commercial
production, other production resources such as Associated Press (A/P) news wire
service delivery, remote operations, Common Alerting Protocol (CAP)/EAS Internet
access, and Studio Transmitter Links (STL) transmitter metering and control. The
network could also be used to provide for transmitter site security A/P news, station
42The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
social Media/applications/contests/games, in‐house Wi‐Fi access, FCC accounts, Traffic
Bookkeeping (includes staff and listener accounts), and portable media using Universal
Serial Bus (USB) or Bluetooth.
LOCAL SMALL RADIO STATION
Commercial Satellite
Transmitter Site
RDS
Local Radio Station
Broadcast
Sat RX Antenna
Rcvr Radio
Production DEC CO on n sA oi lr e STL Process Transmitter Home Customer
Content
Station Network
Remote
control
Admin News EAS
Traffic
Firewall
Internet Service Provider PC/Smart Firewall
Device
Internet Service Provider
ENG/SNG
3) Broadcast Hubbed (Central Cast) Operation
Broadcast station hub is somewhat different from a broadcast station. A broadcast
station typically takes the repetitive 24X7 master control operations of two or more
broadcast stations and combines them into a single facility for efficiency purposes.
These can include private third party business, educational or state, station groups or
network O&O’s (owned and operated) hubs. A television station that is a spoke of a hub
facility does not need to be a small market facility. A hubbed television station is a fully
featured and functioning facility that can have a news department, promotions, and be
a network affiliate or independent. It simply does not have a master control facility to
originate its programming to the local broadcast transmitter. There are two ways to
accomplish this:
 The central hub originates all content which is sent to the satellite station as a
video stream over a private bandwidth circuit. Local commercials, news
programming, and other interstitial material are sent in the other direction to
the hub for transmission at a later time or in real time in the case of live news
programming. Traffic operations are also usually centralized at the hub facility.,
or
43The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 The satellite station has all of the content material and equipment onsite, but is
controlled from the central hub.
Today with the cost of bandwidth being much lower than five years ago most central‐
casting locations use method number one. The obvious security and redundancy issues
regarding protection of the feed from the hub require that two diverse routes should be
employed with firewalls and VPN protection. All other data circuits, computers, digital
streaming feeds, feeds of any type should be protected as they would be in any other
modern broadcast facility.
BROADCAST HUBBED OPERATION
Commercial Satellite
Transmitter Site
Broadcast
Fiber Antenna
Back-up
Video/Audio
IP/Feed Radio/Television
Devices Station Transmitter
Sat RX
Television/Radio
Network Headquarters
Transmitter Site
Workstations
Broadcast
Antenna
Radio/Television
Incoming Firewall Outgoing Firewall Station Transmitter
Internet Service Provider
Station Hub
(DTV/AM/FM/HD-Radio)
Transmitter Site
Risks for business: ENG/SNG
1. Internet connections
2. Email
3. File Delivery (content or otherwise) Broadcast
4. USB Devices Antenna
5. Laptops Radio/Television
6. Partners, etc. Station Transmitter
4) Broadcast Network
Broadcast networks provide content to stations, cable companies, satellite providers
and even OTT (Over the Top) broadcast. A broadcast network range from a few hundred
to a few thousand employees and typically provides a national or international footprint
for distribution. Many functional areas within a network include, but are not limited to,
sales, programming, traffic, production, news, public relations, accounting and finance,
and engineering and operations. Engineering and Operations typically operates on a
24X7 basis a plays a critical role in providing content for stations, cable companies,
satellite providers and OTT distributors. This content eventually makes its way to the
public for news, sports, weather, education, public interest, and entertainment.
44The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Broadcast Network
Commercial Satellite
Sat Rx
Media Supply Chain
Satellite Recieve Ingest/Playout Private
Fiber Rx or
Commercial
Terrestrial
Uplink
B’Cast Fiber
( DC eo lm ivem ree drc bia yl B’Cast Firewall WB or ro ka sd tac ta is ot ns Telev Si ts aio tin o/ nRadio
Telco Broadcast
or Antenna
Dark Fiber) Laptop
Corporate Network File
(Single Building or Campus) Delivery
Firewall ISP A
Corporate
Workstations
Internet
Risks for business:
1. Internet connections
2. Email CDN, Partners, ETC
3. File Delivery (content or otherwise)
4. USB Devices
5. Laptops ISP B
6. Partners, etc.
VI. APPLYING THE NIST CYBERSECURITY FRAMEWORK
The NIST Framework presents five Core Functions organizations can use to evaluate their
cybersecurity risks.
 Identify – Develop the organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to
systems, assets, data, and capabilities. The activities in the Identify Function are
foundational for effective use of the Framework. Understanding the business context,
the resources that support critical functions and the related cybersecurity risks enables
an organization to focus and prioritize its efforts, consistent with its risk management
strategy and business needs.
 Protect – Develop and implement the appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of
critical infrastructure services. The Protect Function supports the ability to limit or
contain the impact of a potential cybersecurity event. Examples of outcome Categories
within this Function include: Access Control; Awareness and Training; Data Security;
Information Protection Processes and Procedures; Maintenance; and Protective
Technology.
45The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Detect – Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of
a cybersecurity event. The Detect Function enables timely discovery of cybersecurity
events. Examples of outcome Categories within this Function include: Anomalies and
Events; Security Continuous Monitoring; and Detection Processes.
 Respond – Develop and implement the appropriate activities to take action regarding a
detected cybersecurity event. The Respond Function supports the ability to contain the
impact of a potential cybersecurity event. Examples of outcome Categories within this
Function include: Response Planning; Communications; Analysis; Mitigation; and
Improvements.
 Recover – Develop and implement the appropriate activities to maintain plans for
resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a
cybersecurity event. The Recover Function supports timely recovery to normal
operations to reduce the impact from a cybersecurity event. Examples of outcome
Categories within this Function include: Recovery Planning; Improvements; and
Communications.
VII. APPLICATION METHODOLOGY
The CSRIC IV Broadcast Sub‐Committee reviewed the NIST framework as it applies to the
different segments of the broadcast industry;
 Small Radio Station
 Local Broadcast Station
 Station Hub (or Central Cast) Operation
 Broadcast Network
Each of the 98 sub‐categories of the NIST Framework were evaluated as to being non‐critical,
may be critical, or critical for each of the types of broadcast infrastructure models. This helps
define how the scope of the framework can be applied to broadcast organizations of
differentiating scope and size.
46The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TV
Small Radio Station Network
NIST Sub‐Category Broadcast
Station Hub Facility
Station
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems
Critical Critical Critical Critical
within the organization are inventoried
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and
applications within the organization are Critical Critical Critical Critical
inventoried
ID.AM‐3: Organizational communication and May Not be
Critical Critical
data flows are mapped Critical
ID.AM‐4: External information systems are
Critical Critical
catalogued
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices,
data and software) are prioritized based on
Critical Critical Critical Critical
their classification, criticality, and business
value
ID.AM‐6: Cybersecurity roles and
responsibilities for the entire workforce and
Critical Critical Critical Critical
third‐party stakeholders (e.g., suppliers,
customers, partners) are established
ID.BE‐1: Organization's role in the supply May be May be
chain is identified and communicated Critical Critical
ID.BE‐2: Organization's place in critical
May be May be
infrastructure and its industry sector is
Critical Critical
identified and communicated
ID.BE‐3: Priorities for organizational mission,
May be
objectives and actives are established and Critical Critical
Critical
communicated
47The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical functions
May be
for delivery of critical services are Critical Critical
Critical
established
ID.BE‐5: Resilience requirements to support May be
Critical Critical
delivery of critical services are established Critical
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information security May be May be
policy is established Critical Critical
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles &
responsibilities are coordinated and aligned Critical Critical
with internal roles and external partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory requirements
regarding cybersecurity, including privacy May be May be
Critical Critical
and civil liberties obligations, are understood Critical Critical
and managed
Critical Critical Critical Critical
ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk management
processes address cybersecurity risks
Critical Critical
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are identified
Critical Critical
and documented
ID.RA‐2: Threat and vulnerability
May be May be
information is received from information Critical Critical
Critical Critical
sharing forums and sources
ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and external,
Critical Critical Critical Critical
are identified and documented
May be May be
ID.RA‐4: Potential business impacts and
Critical Critical Critical Critical
likelihoods are identified
Critical Critical Critical Critical
ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, likelihoods,
and impacts are used to determine risk
48The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are identified and
Critical Critical Critical Critical
prioritized
May be May be
ID.RM‐1: Risk management processes are
Critical Critical
established, managed, and agreed to by Critical Critical
organizational stakeholders
ID.RM‐2: Organizational risk tolerance is
Critical Critical
determined and clearly expressed
ID.RM‐3: The organization's determination
of risk tolerance is informed by its role in May be May be
critical infrastructure and sector specific risk Critical Critical
analysis
Critical Critical
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are
Critical Critical
managed for authorized devices and users
PR.AC‐2: Physical access to assets is
Critical Critical Critical Critical
managed and protected
PR.AC‐3: Remote access is managed Critical Critical Critical Critical
Critical Critical
PR.AC‐4: Access permissions are managed,
incorporating the principles of least privilege Critical Critical
and separation of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is protected,
incorporating network segregation where Critical Critical Critical Critical
appropriate
May be May be
PR.AT‐1: All users are informed and trained Critical Critical
Critical Critical
49The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Critical Critical
PR.AT‐2: Privileged users understand roles &
Critical Critical
responsibilities
PR.AT‐3: Third‐party stakeholders (e.g.,
May be May be May be May be
suppliers customers, partners) understand
Critical Critical Critical Critical
roles & responsibilities
PR.AT‐4: Senior executives understand roles May be May be
Critical Critical
& responsibilities Critical Critical
PR.AT‐5: Physical and information security
personnel understand roles and Critical Critical Critical Critical
responsibility
PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected Critical Critical Critical Critical
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected Critical Critical Critical Critical
PR.DS‐3: Assets are formally managed
throughout removal, transfers and Critical Critical
disposition
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure May be May be
availability is maintained Critical Critical
PR.DS‐5: Protections against data leaks are May be May be
Critical Critical
implemented Critical Critical
PR.DS‐6: Integrity checking mechanisms are
used to verify software, firmware, and Critical Critical Critical Critical
information integrity
50The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
PR.DS‐7: The development and testing
environment(s) are separate from the Critical Critical
production environment
PR.IP‐1: A baseline configuration of
information technology/industrial control Critical Critical
systems is created and maintained
PR.IP‐2: A System Development Life Cycle to May be May be
manage systems is implemented Critical Critical
PR.IP‐3: Configuration change control
Critical Critical Critical Critical
processes are in place
PR.IP‐4: Backups of information are
conducted, maintained and tested Critical Critical Critical Critical
periodically
PR.IP‐5: Policy and regulations regarding the
physical operating environment for Critical Critical
organizational assets are met
PR.IP‐6: Data is destroyed according to May be May be
policy Critical Critical
PR.IP‐7: Protection processes are May be May be
Critical Critical
continuously improved Critical Critical
PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of protection
May be May be
technologies is shared with appropriate Critical Critical
Critical Critical
parties
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response
and Business Continuity) and recovery plans
Critical Critical Critical Critical
(Incident Recovery and Disaster Recovery)
are in place and managed
51The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
PR.IP‐10: Response and recovery plans are May be May be
Critical Critical
tested Critical Critical
PR.IP‐11: Cybersecurity is included in human
May be May be
resources practices (e.g., de‐provisioning, Critical Critical
Critical Critical
personnel screening)
PR.IP‐12: A vulnerability management plan is May be May be
developed and implemented Critical Critical
PR.MA‐1: Maintenance and repair of
organizational assets is performed and May be May be
logged in a timely manner, with approved Critical Critical
and controlled tools
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of
organizational assets is performed in a Critical Critical Critical Critical
manner that prevents unauthorized access
PR.PT‐1: Audit/log records are determined,
May be May be
documented, implemented, and reviewed in
Critical Critical
accordance with policy
PR.PT‐2: Removable media is protected and May be May be
Critical Critical
its use restricted according to policy Critical Critical
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is
controlled, incorporating the principle of Critical Critical Critical Critical
least functionality
PR.PT‐4: Communications and control
Critical Critical Critical Critical
networks are protected
DE.AE‐1: A baseline of network operations
May be May be
and expected data flows for users and
Critical Critical
systems is established and managed
52The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
DE.AE‐2: Detected events are analyzed to May be May be
Critical Critical
understand attack targets and methods Critical Critical
DE.AE‐3: Event data are aggregated and
correlated from multiple sources and Critical Critical
sensors
May be May be
DE.AE‐4: Impact of events is determined Critical Critical
Critical Critical
DE.AE‐5: Incident alert thresholds are May be May be
Critical Critical
established Critical Critical
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to
Critical Critical Critical Critical
detect potential cybersecurity events
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is
monitored to detect potential cybersecurity Critical Critical Critical Critical
events
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is monitored to May be May be
Critical Critical
detect potential cybersecurity threats Critical Critical
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected Critical Critical Critical Critical
DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code is
Critical Critical Critical Critical
detected
DE.CM‐6: External service provider activity is
May be May be
monitored to detect potential cybersecurity Critical Critical
Critical Critical
events
53The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring for unauthorized
May be May be
personnel, connections, devices, and Critical Critical
Critical Critical
software is performed
May be May be
DE.CM‐8: Vulnerability scans are performed Critical Critical
Critical Critical
DE.DP‐1: Roles and responsibilities for
May be May be
detection are well defined to ensure
Critical Critical
accountability
DE.DP‐2: Detection activities comply with May be May be
applicable requirements Critical Critical
May be May be May be May be
DE.DP‐3: Detection processes are tested
Critical Critical Critical Critical
DE.DP‐4: Event detection information is May be May be
Critical Critical
communicated to appropriate parties Critical Critical
DE.DP‐6: Detection processes are May be May be
Critical Critical
continuously improved Critical Critical
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or
Critical Critical Critical Critical
after an event
RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their roles and
order of operations when a response is Critical Critical Critical Critical
needed
RS.CO‐2: Events are reported consistent with May be May be
Critical Critical
established criteria Critical Critical
54The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
RS.CO‐3: Information is shared consistent May be May be
with response plans Critical Critical
Critical Critical
RS.CO‐4: Coordination with stakeholders
Critical Critical
occurs consistent with response plans
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary information sharing
May be May be
occurs with external stakeholders to achieve
Critical Critical
broader cybersecurity situational awareness
RS.AN‐1: Notifications from detection
Critical Critical Critical Critical
systems are investigated
RS.AN‐2: The impact of the incident is May be May be
Critical Critical
understood Critical Critical
RS.AN‐3: Forensics are performed Critical Critical
RS.AN‐4: Incidents are categorized
Critical Critical
consistent with plans
RS.MI‐1: Incidents are contained Critical Critical Critical Critical
RS.MI‐2: Incidents are mitigated Critical Critical Critical Critical
RS.MI‐3: Newly identified vulnerabilities are
Critical Critical Critical Critical
mitigated or documented as accepted risks
RS.IM‐1: Response plans incorporate lessons
Critical Critical
learned
55The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
May be May be
RS.IM‐2: Response strategies are updated
Critical Critical
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed during or May be May be
Critical Critical
after an event Critical Critical
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plans incorporate lessons
Critical Critical
learned
May be May be
RC.RP‐2: Recovery strategies are updated Critical Critical
Critical Critical
May be May be May be
RC.CO‐1: Public related are managed Critical
Critical Critical Critical
RC.CO‐2: Reputation after an event is
repaired
RC.CO‐3: Recovery activities are
May be May be
communicated to internal stakeholders and
Critical Critical
executive and management teams
VIII. ILLUSTRATIVE USE CASES
Cyber security involves all broadcast stations regardless of size. As a broadcaster you may think
there is no real potential risk to your business from cyber security attacks since your business
simply puts news and entertainment over the airways.
But, consider how many stations have a web presence and are now streaming the morning
news and traffic reports. And that many stations have sophisticated financial system so folks on
the road can access everything from the viewer database to sales tools. In engineering, just
about everything has an internet connection now (e.g., the EAS system is directly connected to
FEMA and National Weather Service for Emergency Alerts).
The NIST Framework can help make sense of potential cyber security risks for stations going
down this road for the first time. The first step is to take a look at the new cyber security
framework and make it a part of your business. There are many resources available and
technical expertise can be either your internal IT department or an external cyber security
specialist.
56The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
As a local radio or television broadcaster you have a commitment to your community for which
you are licensed. Making cyber security part of your business protects your revenue, your
employees, your viewers, and your community at large. The best way to get started is start
small and identify what needs to be protected first.
1) What are you trying to protect?
If you have a news organization there are many systems that are vulnerable for attack.
These include but are not limited to; news room computer system, playout servers and
automation, graphics machines, news reporters’ laptops, and cellular devices used to
bring stories in from the field. A firewall is good but cannot protect from bad practices
such as not providing controls on network access, unprotected laptops, and “thumb”
drives introduced to the network and employees visiting untrusted web sites.
2) Who is responsible/involved in the process?
Cyber security isn’t someone else’s job, it is everyone’s job. Support from all
stakeholders is the key to success. The support for cyber security needs must start at
the leadership level and everyone from the General Manager, Programming, News
Director, Sales Manager, HR, IT, and Engineering needs to understand and support these
efforts.
3) How do you tackle the Framework? What do you do first?
Once the station leaders support the initiative, bring together the stakeholders and
provide the guidance and education regarding what is involved and what each
individual’s roles and responsibilities are. You may find once people are educated there
will be better understanding of the process (such as taking systems down to install latest
security patches). Cyber security can be made to fit any culture.
4) How did you determine what categories and subcategories are the most important?
How did you implement the Framework guidance?
Review the framework and focus on what is most important to protect your “critical”
systems and work out from there. Businesses can approach the framework in many
ways. It doesn’t matter if the easy stuff goes first or if the more critical does, but doing
nothing is not an option.
5) What are your plans for the future in regard to progressing in maturity?
Once you get through all the initial items on the cyber security framework you may find
the more you move into to it, the easier it gets. You can then even start on some of the
items from the “big guys” to help your continuous improvement process. You may still
get groans from the reporters when you make sure their machine is scanned before
they can get on the network ‐ but they at least now will know the importance of good
57The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
cyber security. Proper cyber security can work for all businesses and the framework can
provide the roadmap.
A. Broadcast Radio/TV Station/Hub Assessment
1) Internet Access‐ In a fast paced operation where both resources and time are scarce,
there is a need to ensure proper security protocols are communicated and followed
on a regular basis. In this case, employees are aware of the company’s goals and
strategy for security, employees are trained and operating procedures and protocols
are established and communicated. Examples of this could include use of only
“trusted” internet sites, a well‐established email policy to ensure employees avoid
opening email from “unknown” sources, and discipline in using company and
personal resources. This is defined in the analytical framework in several areas;
 Risk Management Strategy
 Awareness and Training
 Communication
2) File/Content Delivery‐Broadcasting is moving towards a more IP based infrastructure
where videotape content is being replaced with file based content. These files are
large in size and may require special high speed networks and high throughput
storage systems. Security measures need to be in place without impeding the timely
workflow process required to receive large content files. These files can be delivered
through networks, hard drives or even USB type devices. Many of the files are in a
proprietary format (e.g., Apple Pro Res, AVID DNX, etc.) and require special security
measures. Network delivery systems such as Signiant and Aspera provide the user a
path to implement a security layer. This is defined in the analytical framework in the
following areas;
 Protective Technology
 Detection Process
 Continuous Monitoring
 Mitigation
3) News and Production ‐ News and production have unique challenges in security.
Many of the policies described in “Internet Access” would be included, but there
may be many instances where going outside “trusted” sources may be required to
obtain “news worthy” information. Also, microwave technology for backhaul of
“live” shots is quickly being replaced with new technology such as “bonded LTE” to
provide “live” or file‐based content for news, sports or other programming. Another
unique challenge is much of the personnel are often not full time employees, but
contract workers, per diem production staff and “stringers” (such as photographers
and camera operators). Providing the proper training and discipline may be difficult
58The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
and require careful vetting and clear and easy to understand expectations and
procedures. This is defined in the analytical framework in several areas;
 Risk Management Strategy
 Awareness and Training
 Communication
 Information Protection Processes and Procedures
4) Partners ‐ Without the cooperation of key business partners’ security measures may
be difficult to administer even within the most disciplined organizations. Broadcast
organizations rely on network providers, satellite providers, equipment providers
and service providers to ensure all security measures are in place. Unfortunately
much of the legacy broadcast equipment still in use does not support security
patching, auto updating, or system monitoring through configuration management
databases (CMDB) and other controls. It is recommended that broadcast
organizations address this by making security an integral part of the requirements
for purchasing new equipment and services. This is defined in the analytical
framework in the following areas;
 Asset Management
 Risk Management
 Continuous Monitoring
 Detection Processes
Regarding hubbed operations, the obvious security and redundancy issues regarding
protection of the feed from the hub require that two diverse routes should be employed
with firewalls and VPN protection. All other data circuits, computers, digital streaming
feeds, feeds of any type should be protected as they would be in any other modern
broadcast facility (see stations above). The best way to accomplish is to work closely
with your vendor and security experts. It may be better if they are not the same
company so there are proper checks and balances.
Also ensure everyone involved understands their roles and responsibilities. Make sure
incidents and changes are properly logged and documented. There should always be a
back out plan for major changes that have an adverse effect. Many systems should have
a test lab to try new software and hardware before it is deployed, but this may not be
possible in a large scale network that cannot be replicated. Put together a response plan
and track recovery time for continuous improvement.
While a hubbed infrastructure provides efficiencies in a multi‐station operation it is
important to recognize that there is an increased risk which may impact the ability to
provide essential and important services to listeners and viewers in multiple markets.
59The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Broadcast Networks ‐ Broadcast Firewall
As a Network Broadcaster Engineering Manager you have an obligation to the stations
that depend on your distribution of content, including content for public interest and
emergency information. There are many legacy broadcast systems that are not
protected from cyber security attacks, monitored for threats nor properly controlled.
Many IT groups have the necessary talent within their security staff to help identify the
risks and create a plan to help mitigate them. It is important to gain support from your
leadership including Technology Officer, Administrative, Programming, and Finance
before you review and then use the NIST Cybersecurity Framework to protect core
network and critical infrastructure used in Broadcast Operations.
The areas that should be focused on are access points to our critical production, ingest
and broadcast systems. This involves possibly installing inbound/outbound firewall at all
campuses. This broadcast demilitarized zone (DMZ) separates the broadcast Local Area
Network (LAN) from the administration LAN, and provides the necessary protection.
As a group, you should review the categories within the NIST Framework, and based
upon your initial risk assessment focus on what has the greatest urgency to implement
within your broadcast network. Then devise a plan for a review and recommendation
on the following categories: (1) identify, (2) detect, (3) protect, (4) respond, and (5)
recover.
Once you complete your analysis the next step is implementation. This is not as easy as
one would imagine since many of the systems involved may never have had a firewall or
constraints (such as virus protection, etc.), so the approach is to proceed cautiously and
carefully:
1. Access Control ‐ New Firewalls may need to be installed without restrictions so a
full audit and analysis could be completed before making changes.
2. Data Security ‐ A strict change management process should be instituted so any
new Firewall rules could be quickly backed out if needed.
3. Information Protection & Process Improvement ‐ A communication plan should
be devised to ensure all stakeholders were informed of the risks.
4. Anomalies & Events‐ The network should be continuously monitored to detect
potential cybersecurity events.
As you can see it is not only important to place cyber security controls within the
network, but to collaborate within groups go ensure success. It is also recommended to
have regular meetings with your new “cyber security committee” and meet regularly to
discuss the latest threats, changes to our security protocols, and next step for
implementing the framework. Each quarter you should review the NIST Framework
against your business and look for new ways to improve our systems and processes.
60The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
 Broadcasters are not providers of IP networks but are consumers of these services and
delivery of critical news and public warning services are enabled these networks.
 Periodic assessment and understanding of potential cyber threats to broadcasters’ IP
infrastructure is essential to maintaining their critical on‐air operations.
 Broadcast industry organizations should review this report and use the risk management
matrix above and the analytical process outlined herein to adapt the NIST Framework
approach as appropriate to cybersecurity risk management in a manner that best fits
their own operations and infrastructure.
 No new regulations are warranted to address conformity to the NIST Framework to the
broadcast ecosystem. The FCC should avoid taking a checklist approach to cybersecurity.
Rather, broadcasters and their IP service providers are best positioned to understand
their cybersecurity needs and risk tolerances, and should be afforded flexibility to apply
the framework to their critical operations.
 The Broadcast industry is a diverse segment, consisting of large station groups and
broadcast networks but also including many small entities. Thus continued flexibility is
essential for use of the NIST Framework. Each broadcast entity is best positioned to
understand and address its cybersecurity risks, and should be afforded flexibility to
apply the framework to their specific architecture.
X. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The broadcast segment acknowledges the substantial contributions of time and expertise from
each of the individuals and companies represented on the subgroup.
61The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.2 CABLE SEGMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
62The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Introduction .................................................................................................... 64
II. Cable Segment Group Members ..................................................................... 64
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology ................................................................ 64
IV. Barriers to Participation .................................................................................. 67
V. Findings and Conclusions: Cable Segment ...................................................... 68
A. Cable Networks ........................................................................................... 70
B. Cable Access Networks ............................................................................... 70
C. Cable Core Network .................................................................................... 72
D. Cable Services ............................................................................................. 72
VI. Critical Services ............................................................................................... 74
VII. Alignment with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework ....................................... 74
VIII. Application Methodology .............................................................................. 75
IX. Priority Practices ............................................................................................. 87
X. Use Case – Generic Cable Critical Infrastructure ............................................. 88
A. Generic Profile Example .............................................................................. 88
XI. Recommendations: Cable Segment ................................................................ 90
63The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. Introduction
The Cable Segment is a subgroup within CSRIC Working Group 4 focused on reducing
cybersecurity risk to the cable network infrastructure through the application of the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF). The last set of comprehensive cybersecurity best practices was
recommended by CSRIC III WG2A in March 201141. The Cable Segment evaluated CSRIC’s
existing cybersecurity best practices to determine how best to address alignment with the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework.
II. Cable Segment Group Members
Member Company
Bill Check National Cable and Telecommunications Association
Bill Taub Cablevision
Brian Allen Time‐Warner Cable
Charles Hudson Comcast
Chris Roosenraad Time‐Warner Cable
John Kelly Comcast
Jorge Nieves Comcast
Joseph Viens Time‐Warner Cable
Mary Haynes Charter Communications
Matt Tooley National Cable and Telecommunications Association
Michael O’Reirdan Comcast
Myna Soto Comcast
Ramesh Sepehrrad Comcast
Russell Eubanks Cox Communications
Susan Joseph CableLabs
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology
The foundational objectives of Working Group 4 include the following:42
 To conform the NIST framework to the communications sector. Identify core mission(s),
critical infrastructure and risks to the communications sector and organize the NIST core
framework based on the aspects most relevant to ensuring the reliability and integrity of
the core communications infrastructure.
41 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
II, Working Group 2A Cybersecurity Best Practices – Final Report (2011), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/WG2A‐Cyber‐Security‐Best‐Practices‐Final‐Report.pdf.
42 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
IV, Cybersecurity Risk Management Best Practices (WG4) (2014), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG‐4_Report_061814.pdf.
64The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Maintain flexibility for individual companies. As part of this exercise, based on updated
threat information, and consistent with the NIST framework, the communications sector
conforming framework will allow for flexibility for individual companies to self‐determine
how to apply the framework to their business based upon their own individual risk profile,
risk tolerance, and critical infrastructure ownership.
 Develop new streamlined practices that follow Framework organization and common risk
management approaches. Use existing CSRIC Best Practices and other resources to inform
and organize the Framework with the goal to provide companies a “guide” of practices
specific to communication segments that companies could elect to implement to mitigate
cyber risk.
 Develop use cases/examples of how the framework is being used within the sector. Develop
an appendix with illustrative examples or use cases about how the framework is being used
or incorporated into risk management processes of communications companies.
Descriptions will be anonymized and provide examples for all sector members around how
aspects of the framework could be voluntarily used in the communications sector.
 Provide guidance to incorporate framework into existing company risk management
processes. Determine high level processes that companies could perform, to the extent
they use the framework, to incorporate it into their existing risk management program, or
build a cyber‐risk management program where none exists today.
The NIST Framework suggests seven steps for applying the Framework and, consistent with
the FCC’s charter for Working Group #4, allows for the framework to be tailored by
individual companies to suit their unique needs characteristics, and risks. The steps include
the following:
1) Prioritize and Scope. The organization identifies its business/mission objectives and
high‐level organizational priorities. With this information, the organization makes
strategic decisions regarding cybersecurity implementations and determines the
scope of systems and assets that support the selected business line or process. The
Framework can be adapted to support the different business lines or processes
within an organization, which may have different business needs and associated risk
tolerance.
2) Orient. Once the scope of the cybersecurity program has been determined for the
business line or process, the organization identifies related systems and assets,
regulatory requirements, and overall risk approach. The organization then identifies
threats to, and vulnerabilities of, those systems and assets.
3) Create a Current Profile. The organization develops a Current Profile by indicating
which Category and Subcategory outcomes from the Framework Core are currently
being achieved.
65The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
4) Conduct a Risk Assessment. This assessment could be guided by the organization’s
overall risk management process or previous risk assessment activities. The
organization analyzes the operational environment in order to discern the likelihood
of a cybersecurity event and the impact that the event could have on the
organization. It is important that organizations seek to incorporate emerging risks
and threat and vulnerability data to facilitate a robust understanding of the
likelihood and impact of cybersecurity events.
5) Create a Target Profile. The organization creates a Target Profile that focuses on the
assessment of the Framework Categories and Subcategories describing the
organization’s desired cybersecurity outcomes. Organizations also may develop their
own additional Categories and Subcategories to account for unique organizational
risks. The organization may also consider influences and requirements of external
stakeholders such as sector entities, customers, and business partners when
creating a Target Profile.
6) Determine, Analyze, and Prioritize Gaps. The organization compares the Current
Profile and the Target Profile to determine gaps. Next it creates a prioritized action
plan to address those gaps that draws upon mission drivers, a cost/benefit analysis,
and understanding of risk to achieve the outcomes in the Target Profile. The
organization then determines resources necessary to address the gaps. Using
Profiles in this manner enables the organization to make informed decisions about
cybersecurity activities; supports risk management, and enables the organization to
perform cost‐effective, targeted improvements.
7) Implement Action Plan. The organization determines which actions to take in
regards to the gaps, if any, identified in the previous step. It then monitors its
current cybersecurity practices against the Target Profile. For further guidance, the
Framework identifies example Informative References regarding the Categories and
Subcategories, but organizations should determine which standards, guidelines, and
practices, including those that are sector specific, work best for their needs.
Consistent with the other communications segments represented in this document, the cable
segment took into account the seven steps suggested in the previously outlined NIST
Framework, and examined how those steps apply and conform to the way that the cable
industry is structured, and to how our networks operate. For the purposes of this report, we
provide an example template that could be used as a guide to how members of the cable
industry can apply the NIST Framework as a tool to mitigate threats to the cable critical
infrastructure. Through the application of this holistic approach, operators can have a better
understanding of both direct and indirect risks to their networks, how the cyber‐threat vectors
for those risks relate to supporting the overall functioning of critical communications, and
create action plans to effectively protect against them.
66The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
For this report, the NIST Framework methodology has been used in the creation of a
representative example that applies in a general way to the operation and business processes
of a generic cable operator’s network. Taking the form of a use case, the cable segment is
offering an assessment template that can be modified and tailored to the needs of a given
operator, and further developed into a full implementation plan that guides the organization in
protecting and maintaining their critical assets. It must be stated that although cable networks
have some commonality in their design, the organizational infrastructure and geographical
distribution of assets varies widely. Therefore, the use case presented here assumes a
centralized model that can be enforced in a top down approach, in a large organization with a
clearly delineated hierarchical business structure. Those organizations with widely dispersed
assets and relatively autonomous regional facilities should take into consideration their
structure and apply the model accordingly.
For purposes of consistency with other sectors, the report is organized into two primary
sections: (1) defining the methodology used by the cable segment group to prioritize the
Framework best practices for cable critical infrastructure, which could also be used by cable
segment members to address other issues depending upon their business needs; and (2)
provide an illustrative example profile by applying that methodology to critical cable
communications infrastructure.
To prioritize the NIST framework best practices the cable segment worked through a worksheet
in collaboration with other segments (e.g. wireline, wireless) considering the best practices
along a variety of factors. These include considering whether each functional area, category
and sub‐category were in or out of scope, how they may be applied, their criticality to
protecting against cyber threats, and difficulty to implement. The working group also
considered several barriers to entry including technological barriers, scale barriers,
consumer/market barriers, operational barriers, and legal/policy barriers in assessing the
degree of difficulty to implementing individual practices.
Finally the working group considered various threats from the Threats Feeder Group in
conducting the criticality assessment. The results of this analysis were to categorize the various
functional areas, categories and sub‐categories into three buckets of practices between highest
priorities, mid‐tier and tertiary priority as outlined in Section IX of this document.
IV. Barriers to Participation
As noted above, the working group also considered several barriers to entry including
technological barriers, scale barriers, consumer/market barriers, operational barriers, and
legal/policy barriers in assessing the degree of difficulty to implementing individual practices.
Please see the barriers sub‐group report for a more detailed discussion of barriers associated
with implementing framework.
67The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. Findings and Conclusions: Cable Segment
In order to create a sample profile, the cable segment first reviewed the NIST framework in the
context of critical infrastructure. The framework could also be viewed for other factors beyond
critical infrastructure consistent with each individual sector or company’s priorities and core
mission applying the seven steps outlined by NIST discussed above.
In developing a representative profile for critical infrastructure the segment considered critical
infrastructure consistent with the definition discussed in President Obama’s Executive Order on
“Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity” dated 12 February, 2013, critical infrastructure
includes those “systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States
that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact
on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of
those matters.”
Further, in 2012 the Communications Sector, in partnership with DHS, completed the 2012 Risk
Assessment for Communications (hereinafter the National Sector Risk Assessment or NSRA),
updating its 2008 report, which assessed physical and cyber threats to the communications
infrastructure. The risk assessment was intended to further the goals of the Communications
Sector Specific Plan, also developed jointly with DHS in 2010, to identify and protect national
critical network components, ensure overall network reliability, maintain “always‐on” service
for critical customers and quickly restore critical communications functions and services
following a disruption. The cable segment agreed that the scope of the efforts in Working
Group Four should build upon the work already completed in the 2012 risk assessment.
The NSRA assessed the risk to the communications infrastructure from both physical incidents
and cyber‐attacks. The results of this analysis concluded that while all cable network
components are vulnerable to single incidents, the risks are limited to local—and not regional
or national— disruptions and/or outages. The main risk area was determined to be third party
support providers, submarine cable landing sites, long haul fiber optic cables, and core
transport nodes that are vulnerable to malicious actors committing resource exhaustion – a
threat that poses a substantial risk to national disruptions and/or outages.
Communications Sector Architectural Model
The NSRA proposes an architectural model that divides the communications network
infrastructure into three components (1) services and applications, (2) core network and (3)
access networks. The NSRA also combines the key communications features and services of the
core networks into what is referred to as the “core network” and then identifies several service
and application platforms such as voice, video and data.
68The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The figure below from the 2012 NSRA illustrates the communications sector architectural
model.
Figure 4 Communications Sector Architectural Model
The core network transports a high volume of aggregated traffic over large distances; typically
via fiber or satellite and interconnects with access networks across the country. The core
network is global, connecting all continents except Antarctica using submarine fiber optic cable
systems and land‐based fiber and copper facility networks. The converged core network uses
various technologies for the physical (layer 1) and transport layers (layer 2) for the transport of
the services.
Multiple service providers operating distinct core networks traversing the entire country
provide the communications core infrastructure. These networks are primarily composed of
wireline networks. The voice, video, and data services typically require some kind of routing
translation query such as a host name look up or toll‐free number query and are provided as
part of operating the core network. In addition, the Network Operations Center (NOC),
customer care centers, and data centers for all the access networks reside on the core network.
The access networks connect the end users to the core network. Traffic may originate and
terminate with an access network without connecting to the core network.
69The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
A. Cable Networks
Cable networks are comprised of an access network and core network. Together these two
networks form the cable network and also known as the Service Delivery Network (SDN)
and are used to deliver voice, video, and data services including high‐speed Internet access
service.
B. Cable Access Networks
The cable access networks use a mixture of fiber and coaxial cable commonly referred to as
hybrid fiber/coaxial (HFC) network to provide bi‐directional signal paths to the customer.
The HFC network effectively segments the cable system into a number of parallel
distribution networks. Typically, HFC networks use a three‐level topology (as shown in the
figure below): 1) headend(s), 2) distribution hubs, and 3) multiple fiber nodes.
Figure 5 Cable Access Network
The three‐level topology is comprised of six major components:
i. Headend: The headend serves as the master facility for receiving voice, video,
and data signals for processing and distribution over the cable access network.
Headends are typically connected to the core network to provide the cable
70The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
company’s users with connectivity to voice and data communications networks
including the Internet.
ii. Distribution Hub: The distribution hubs are intermediate process points in the
HFC network. The distribution hubs are typically connected to the headend
using redundant fiber optic ring architecture. The distribution hubs feed a
number of fiber nodes.
iii. Fiber Node: The fiber nodes provide the interface between the optical signal,
coaxial cable trunk, and distribution cables. The fiber node converts the optical
signal into an RF signal for last mile distribution.
iv. Outside Plant Equipment: These are small vaults or huts that house cable
equipment supporting a specific neighborhood. In addition to housing the
supporting equipment, these vaults or huts are where the commercial power is
mixed with the RF signals on the coaxial cable to provide power to the opto‐
electronics in the fiber nodes and the RF amplifiers.
v. Antenna: Antennas are used to receive the local over the air channels as well
as the cable program networks from the satellites for regeneration and
transmission on the cable access network.
vi. Customer Premise Equipment: This is the equipment that is placed in the end
user’s premise to connect to the cable system to receive the services (voice,
video, and/or data).
71The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
C. Cable Core Network
Cable systems include a core network that links their access network(s) to the
communications core infrastructure for voice and data services. Cable systems core
network include the operational support systems (OSS) that are used to provision, monitor,
and maintain the cable network. Included in the OSS are the billing systems;
authentication, authorization and access (AAA) systems, provisioning, monitoring systems,
and number lookup systems like domain name servers (DNS).
Network Customer
Opera ons Care 3rd Party Providers
(i.e. DNS)
Center Center
Commercial Data
Centers (i.e. Cloud)
Opera onal Support System
(OSS)
HTTP | RTP | SIP | H.264
Other
TCP/IP | SS7 | Ethernet Networks
MPLS | TDM Voice | Core Rou ng
Fiber | Copper
Core Transport
Core Network Nodes
Cable Access
Network
Figure 6 Cable Core Network Infrastructure
Connected to the core network are also the network operations center and customer care
centers. The core network is also the gateway to the third party providers, commercial data
centers for services such as cloud based services, and access to other networks like the
PSTN and Internet.
D. Cable Services
Together the cable access and core network are the “cable network” for delivering voice,
video, and data services that includes Internet access.
Voice
Voice service is provided using VoIP technology and is deployed using the same IP‐based
platform that delivers high‐speed Internet access service to cable modems. A number
of components are involved in the delivery of the voice service. First is the customer
72The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
gateway, sometimes referred to as a multi‐media terminal adaptor, that translates call
signals to the network call signaling (NCS) protocol used on the cable network for
placing voice calls. This gateway may be a standalone unit or it may be embedded into a
cable modem. The gateway connects over the HFC network to the cable modem
termination system (CMTS) that is located in the headend. The CMTS then interfaces to
the voice‐switching infrastructure via the core networks routing and switching
infrastructure. The voice infrastructure includes the media and signaling gateways for
routing the voice traffic to its endpoint that may reside within the access network or off‐
net in the PSTN.
Video
The video services typically include both local broadcast television affiliates, regional,
nationwide programming, and video‐on‐demand programming. All of these signals are
received at the headend and processed to allow it to be put on the network as a
channel. These signals are combined together using a process known as frequency
division multiplexing for transport to the distribution hubs in the network.
Data
High‐Speed Data (HSD) includes Internet access data. HSD uses a cable modem that acts
as an Ethernet bridge to convert the data from the customer’s home network to a
format compatible with the HFC access network. The cable modem interfaces with the
CMTS at the headend or distribution hub that in turn connects to the Internet via the
core networks switching and routing infrastructure. The CMTS interfaces with other
components such as the DNS server, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server
for the AAA, configuration servers (TFTP) for provisioning, network time protocol (NTP)
for time‐synchronization, and the subsystems of the operational support system.
E. Areas of Critical Focus or Assets
Based upon the NSRA and the analysis performed by the cable segment group, the cable
segment group decided to focus the cable critical infrastructure use case and sample profile
on the cable network core infrastructure as outlined in Figure 6 and described in Section V,
which, if disrupted, would have the greatest impact on service availability on a national or
regional basis.
It is important to note that the cable segment group is NOT indicating its view that the cable
network core should be considered critical infrastructure under the President’s recently
issued Executive Order, which designates that determination to the Department of
Homeland Security.
The cable segment group excluded the access networks and other components of the cable
network infrastructure because, while these elements may have some exposure to cyber
threats, any incident would largely be locally or regionally focused. Further, while the
Domain Name System (DNS) may be in scope, the issues presented by DNS also include
73The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
other parties in the ecosystem. Thus, while the cable segment group can provide some DNS
practices specific to cable service providers, this topic was viewed to be out of scope for this
group. With that said, there was general consensus that the government as a whole should
consider addressing the broader ecosystem challenges for DNS and routing security.
VI. Critical Services
The cable segment focused primary on ensuring the reliability and integrity of cable core
infrastructure as noted above which is supporting infrastructure for a wide variety of
communications services including voice, voice and high‐speed data services.
VII. Alignment with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
The cable segment utilized the NIST cybersecurity framework as a master guideline in order to
tailor its applicability to the cable network, organized it in way that can be used by cable
operators to examine their network vulnerabilities, and prioritized the approach to risk
mitigation for implementation of a strategy.
The cable segment took the NIST framework and applied a 4‐element lens in order to create a
custom template that is designed to ensure full functioning of our critical infrastructure as the
primary objective. Initially, we examined the NIST framework for applicability to protecting
cable’s critical infrastructure as it has been defined in this document. Each element was
considered as whether or not to be in scope to this definition, and subsequently included in a
master list if the condition was met. After this initial scoping exercise, the cable segment
established a categorization based on 3 tests designed to group each framework element in
regard to how each one directly supports the primary objective of maintaining the integrity of
our critical communications infrastructure.
74The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. Application Methodology
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
ID.AM‐1: Physical
devices and systems
within the In Scope 3 3
organization are
inventoried
ID.AM‐2: Software
platforms and
applications within In Scope 3 3
the organization are
inventoried
ID.AM‐3:
Organizational
communication and In Scope 3 3
data flows are
Asset management
mapped
includes those devices
ID.AM‐4: External
that make up the
information systems In Scope 3 3
service delivery
are catalogued
network (voice, IP,
ID.AM‐5: Resources
data) and their
(e.g., hardware,
underlining core
devices, data and
infrastructure. (not
software) are
In Scope including end user 3 3
prioritized based on
devices)
their classification,
criticality, and
business value
ID.AM‐6:
Cybersecurity roles
and responsibilities
for the entire
workforce and third‐ In Scope 3 3
party stakeholders
(e.g., suppliers,
customers, partners)
are established
Security
reviews/analysis (due
ID.BE‐1: diligence) of devices as
Organization's role in In Scope they are being brought 3 3
the supply chain is into the infrastructure
identified and and communicated to
communicated internal management
75The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
and third parties.
An organizations place
in maintaining the core
network within the
Cable sector is known
and communicated
within the organization
(C Suite) and external
agencies and groups.
In Scope How do we peer with 3 3
each other, how do we
ID.BE‐2: exchange info (voice,
Organization's place data, video).
in critical It is known up through
infrastructure and its the organization, what
industry sector is their role is in critical
identified and infrastructure.
communicated
Prioritizes for an
organizational mission,
ID.BE‐3: Priorities for objectives and
organizational activities around
In Scope 3 3
mission, objectives protecting the core
and actives are network are
established and established and
communicated communicated.
Dependencies and
critical functions (i.e.
electrical, cooling, fuel
supplies, etc.) needed
ID.BE‐4: for supporting delivery
In Scope 3 3
Dependencies and of critical services are
critical functions for identified and
delivery of critical understood. (What is
services are critical is defined in the
established NSRA
ID.BE‐5: Resilience
requirements to Defined in Disaster
support delivery of In Scope Recovery Plans, 3 3
critical services are Continuity Plans.
established
ID.GV‐1:
Organizational No further definitions
In Scope 3 3
information security are needed.
policy is established
76The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
ID.GV‐2: Information
security roles &
responsibilities are
coordinated and In Scope 3 3
aligned with internal
roles and external
partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and
regulatory
requirements
regarding
cybersecurity,
In Scope 3 3
including privacy and
civil liberties
obligations, are
understood and
managed
ID.GV‐4: Governance
and risk
management In Scope 3 3
processes address
cybersecurity risks
ID.RA‐1: Asset
vulnerabilities are
In Scope 3 3
identified and
documented
ID.RA‐2: Threat and
vulnerability
information is
In Scope 3 3
received from
information sharing
forums and sources
ID.RA‐3: Threats,
No further definitions
both internal and
are needed.
external, are In Scope 3 3
identified and
documented
ID.RA‐4: Potential
business impacts and
In Scope 3 3
likelihoods are
identified
ID.RA‐5: Threats,
vulnerabilities,
In Scope 3 3
likelihoods, and
impacts are used to
77The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
determine risk
ID.RA‐6: Risk
responses are
In Scope 3 3
identified and
prioritized
ID.RM‐1: Risk
management
processes are
established, No further definitions
In Scope 3 3
managed, and are needed.
agreed to by
organizational
stakeholders
ID.RM‐2:
Expressed through your
Organizational risk
risk policies. Corporate
tolerance is In Scope 3 3
security policy is your
determined and
risk tolerance.
clearly expressed
ID.RM‐3: The
organization's
determination of risk
Covered by our risk
tolerance is informed
In Scope assessment in the 3 3
by its role in critical
NSRA.
infrastructure and
sector specific risk
analysis
PR.AC‐1: Identities
and credentials are
No further definitions
managed for In Scope 3 3
are needed.
authorized devices
and users
Physical access to the
PR.AC‐2: Physical core network assets is
access to assets is In Scope managed including any 3 3
managed and unmanned remote
protected sites.
Remote accessesto
components that make
In Scope 3 3
PR.AC‐3: Remote up the core network
access is managed are managed.
PR.AC‐4: Access Access permissions are
permissions are managed,
managed, In Scope incorporating principles 3 3
incorporating the of least privilege and
principles of least separation of duties on
78The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
privilege and systems and devices
separation of duties within the core
network.
PR.AC‐5:Network Operators will have
integrity is their management
protected, interfaces to the core
In Scope 3 3
incorporating network segregated
network segregation from the public
where appropriate internet
All identities that
support the core
In Scope 3 3
PR.AT‐1: All users are network are informed
informed and trained and train.
All identities with
privileged accounts
PR.AT‐2: Privileged understand their roles
In Scope 3 3
users understand and responsibilities in
roles & securing the core
responsibilities network.
Third Party
PR.AT‐3: Third‐party Stakeholders are
stakeholders (e.g., external organizations
suppliers customers, In Scope that do work to 3 3
partners) understand support the core
roles & network. (Does not
responsibilities include customers)
PR.AT‐4: Senior
executives No further definitions
In Scope 3 3
understand roles & are needed.
responsibilities
PR.AT‐5: Physical and
information security
No further definitions
personnel In Scope 3 3
are needed.
understand roles and
responsibility
PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest
In Scope 3 3
is protected
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐
In Scope Limited to the scope of 3 3
transit is protected
the core network
PR.DS‐3: Assets are
assets.
formally managed
throughout removal, In Scope 3 3
transfers and
disposition
PR.DS‐4: Adequate In Scope Adequate capacity 3 3
79The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
capacity to ensure during crisis events is
availability is maintained.
maintained
PR.DS‐5: Protections
Data leaks as it applies
against data leaks In Scope 3 3
to the core network.
are implemented
MD5 hashes on
PR.DS‐6: Integrity firmware, code signing,
checking etc.
mechanisms are Appropriate tests are
In Scope 3 3
used to verify done on solutions
software, firmware, before they are put
and information into the core network
integrity to verify their security.
The testing
environment is a
separate network, not
connected to the
operational
PR.DS‐7: The environment. Could be
In Scope 3 3
development and either at the MSO
testing facility or at a third
environment(s) are party vendor. Where
separate from the applicable. Some tests
production have to be done in the
environment production network.
PR.IP‐1: A baseline
configuration of Baseline configuration
information of the elements used to
technology/industrial In Scope provide the three 3 3
control systems is services is
created and created/maintained.
maintained
PR.IP‐2: A System
Development Life
No further definitions
Cycle to manage In Scope 3 3
are needed.
systems is
implemented
A configuration control
process is used for all
PR.IP‐3: updates and patches to
In Scope 3 3
Configuration change systems within the
control processes are cable framework
in place scope.
PR.IP‐4: Backups of In Scope Backups of systems 3 3
80The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
information are within the core
conducted, network are
maintained and maintained and tested
tested periodically periodically.
PR.IP‐5: Policy and
regulations regarding
the physical Physical operating
operating In Scope environment for the 3 3
environment for core infrastructure.
organizational assets
are met
PR.IP‐6: Data is We destroy IP data
destroyed according In Scope mappings as defined by NA NA
to policy policy.
PR.IP‐7: Protection Protection processes of
processes are the core network are
In Scope 3 3
continuously continuously
improved evaluated.
PR.IP‐8:
Effectiveness of Sharing with
protection appropriate internal
In Scope 3 3
technologies is parties (management,
shared with board).
appropriate parties
PR.IP‐9: Response
plans (Incident
Response plans and
Response and
recovery plans for
Business Continuity)
components within the
and recovery plans In Scope 3 3
scope of the core
(Incident Recovery
network are in place
and Disaster
and managed.
Recovery) are in
place and managed
Response plans and
recovery plans for
PR.IP‐10: Response In Scope components within the 3 3
and recovery plans scope of the core
are tested network are tested.
PR.IP‐11:
Cybersecurity is
included in human No further definitions
In Scope 3 3
resources practices are needed.
(e.g., deprovisioning,
personnel screening)
PR.IP‐12: A In Scope Vulnerability 3 3
81The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
vulnerability management of the
management plan is assets within the
developed and defined core network
implemented are developed and
managed.
PR.MA‐1:
Maintenance and
Maintenance and
repair of core network
repair of
components as defined
organizational assets
in the scope is
is performed and In Scope 3 3
performed and logged
logged in a timely
in a timely manner,
manner, with
with approved and
approved and
controlled tools.
controlled tools
Remote maintenance
of core network
PR.MA‐2: Remote components as defined
maintenance of in the scope is
organizational assets In Scope performed in manner 3 3
is performed in a that prevents
manner that unauthorized access.
prevents Most of our networks
unauthorized access are remote.
PR.PT‐1: Audit/log Audit/logs of core
records are network components
determined, as defined in the scope
documented, are determined,
In Scope 3 3
implemented, and documented,
reviewed in implemented, and
accordance with reviewed in accordance
policy with policy.
Removable media is
protected and its use
PR.PT‐2: Removable on devices within the
In Scope 3 3
media is protected core network is
and its use restricted restricted according to
according to policy policy.
Access permissions are
managed,
PR.PT‐3: Access to incorporating principles
systems and assets is of least privilege and
In Scope 3 3
controlled, separation of duties on
incorporating the systems and devices
principle of least within the core
functionality network scope.
82The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
(Duplicate of AC‐4)
PR.PT‐4: Out‐of‐band network
Communications and controls and
In Scope 3 3
control networks are communications are
protected protected.
DE.AE‐1: A baseline
of network A baseline of
operations and operational events and
expected data flows data flows for users
In Scope 3 3
for users and and systems are
systems is established and
established and managed.
managed
DE.AE‐2: Detected
Detected events
events are analyzed
In Scope targeting core network 3 3
to understand attack
assets are analyzed.
targets and methods
DE.AE‐3: Event data
are aggregated and
correlated from In Scope Data from events 3 3
multiple sources and targeting core network
sensors assets is used to
DE.AE‐4: Impact of determine impacts and
In Scope 3 3
events is determined establish incident
DE.AE‐5: Incident thresholds.
alert thresholds are In Scope 3 3
established
DE.CM‐1: The Privileged access to
network is core network assets is
monitored to detect In Scope monitored to detect 3 3
potential potential cybersecurity
cybersecurity events events.
DE.CM‐2: The
Physical access to core
physical
network assets is
environment is
In Scope monitored to detect 3 3
monitored to detect
potential cybersecurity
potential
events.
cybersecurity events
Personnel activity
DE.CM‐3: Personnel involving core network
activity is monitored In Scope assets is monitored to 3 3
to detect potential detect potential
cybersecurity threats cybersecurity events.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious Anti‐virus on servers,
In Scope NA NA
code is detected scanning mobile
83The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
applications before
publishing and check if
customers have viruses
(relates back to PR‐DR‐
6)
Network is monitored
to detect potential
cyber security events
from self‐developed
In Scope NA NA
mobile applicants, on
DE.CM‐5: the go software
Unauthorized mobile applications running on
code is detected mobile devices.
Contractors, Cloud
DE.CM‐6: External service providers, and
service provider other authorized
In Scope NA NA
activity is monitored parties who can access
to detect potential the network are
cybersecurity events monitored.
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring Core network assets
for unauthorized are monitored for
personnel, unauthorized
In Scope 3 3
connections, devices, personnel,
and software is connections, devices,
performed and software.
Scanning of devices
DE.CM‐8: that provide the
In Scope NA NA
Vulnerability scans services of the core
are performed network.
DE.DP‐1: Roles and
responsibilities for
detection are well In Scope 3 3
defined to ensure
accountability
DE.DP‐2: Detection
activities comply Core network assets
In Scope 3 3
with applicable are secured with
requirements established and reliable
DE.DP‐3: Detection detection processes.
In Scope 3 3
processes are tested
DE.DP‐4: Event
detection
information is In Scope 3 3
communicated to
appropriate parties
84The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
DE.DP‐6: Detection
processes are
In Scope 3 3
continuously
improved
RS.RP‐1: Response
plan is executed
In Scope 3 3
during or after an
event
RS.CO‐1: Personnel
know their roles and
order of operations In Scope 3 3
when a response is
needed
RS.CO‐2: Events are
reported consistent
In Scope 3 3
with established
criteria
RS.CO‐3: Information
is shared consistent In Scope 3 3
with response plans
RS.CO‐4:
Coordination with The continuous
stakeholders occurs In Scope operation of core 3 3
consistent with network assets is
response plans ensured through
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary effective preparation
information sharing and use of incident
occurs with external response plans.
stakeholders to
In Scope 3 3
achieve broader
cybersecurity
situational
awareness
RS.AN‐1:
Notifications from
In Scope 3 3
detection systems
are investigated
RS.AN‐2: The impact
of the incident is In Scope 3 3
understood
RS.AN‐3: Forensics
In Scope 3 3
are performed
RS.AN‐4: Incidents
are categorized In Scope 3 3
consistent with plans
85The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Scoping Prioritization
In
Scope/Out of Application Criticality Difficulty
Scope
1 to 5;1=Not Critical, 1 to 5; 1 Most
Sub‐Category 5=Most Critical difficult, 5 least
difficult
RS.MN‐1: Incidents
In Scope 3 3
are contained
RS.MN‐2: Incidents
In Scope 3 3
are mitigated
RS.MN‐3: Newly
identified
vulnerabilities are
In Scope 3 3
mitigated or
documented as
accepted risks
RS.IM‐1: Response
plans incorporate In Scope 3 3
lessons learned
RS.IM‐2: Response
strategies are In Scope 3 3
updated
RC.RP‐1: Recovery
plan is executed
In Scope 3 3
during or after an
event
RC.RP‐1: Recovery
plans incorporate In Scope 3 3
lessons learned Assets within the core
RC.RP‐2: Recovery network will be
strategies are In Scope included in the 3 3
updated Recovery Plans and
RC.CO‐1: Public Recovery efforts to
In Scope 3 3
related are managed include any public
RC.CO‐2: Reputation relations and
after an event is In Scope communication 3 3
repaired activities.
RC.CO‐3: Recovery
activities are
communicated to
In Scope 3 3
internal stakeholders
and executive and
management teams
86The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IX. Priority Practices
The cable segment’s initial scoping review concluded that all of the NIST cybersecurity
framework subcategories were in scope as it applies to the cable industry; so all framework
elements were utilized in our analysis. After categorization into one of the 3 levels outlined
above, the cable segment grouped the elements into a spreadsheet that reflects the analysis.
The categorization of framework elements is as follows:
 Level 1 ‐ Items that without which, critical communication functions are compromised.
 Level 2 ‐ Items that directly support operation of Level 1 elements
 Level 3 – Items that inform and provide services to Level 1 elements
The 24 practices in the table below illustrate a sub‐set of the 96 practices from the framework
that an enterprise may determine using the methodology described in this report for itself that
will have largest benefit.
High Priority Practices
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
ID.RA‐2: Threat and vulnerability
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and
ID.AM‐4: External information systems information is received from
systems within the organization are
are catalogued information sharing forums and
inventoried
sources
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and ID.BE‐2: Organization's place in critical ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and
applications within the organization infrastructure and its industry sector is external, are identified and
are inventoried identified and communicated documented
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware,
devices, data and software) are ID.BE‐5: Resilience requirements to
ID.RM‐2: Organizational risk tolerance
prioritized based on their support delivery of critical services are
is determined and clearly expressed
classification, criticality, and established
business value
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory ID.RM‐3: The organization's
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical requirements regarding cybersecurity, determination of risk tolerance is
functions for delivery of critical including privacy and civil liberties informed by its role in critical
services are established obligations, are understood and infrastructure and sector specific risk
managed analysis
ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information PR.AT‐1: All users are informed and
management processes address
security policy is established trained
cybersecurity risks
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles PR.IP‐1: A baseline configuration of
PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of protection
& responsibilities are coordinated information technology/industrial
technologies is shared with
and aligned with internal roles and control systems is created and
appropriate parties
external partners maintained
PR.IP‐5: Policy and regulations
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials
regarding the physical operating DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code
are managed for authorized devices
environment for organizational assets is detected
and users
are met
87The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
DE.CM‐6: External service provider
PR.AC‐2: Physical access to assets is ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are
activity is monitored to detect
managed and protected identified and documented
potential cybersecurity events
X. Use Case – Generic Cable Critical Infrastructure
As defined in Executive Order 13636, Critical Infrastructure means systems and assets, whether
physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such
systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security,
national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters. The definition is taken
from section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c (e)).
As noted above in Section V, based upon the NSRA and the analysis performed by the cable
segment group, the cable segment group focused on core network as illustrated in Figure 6,
which, if disrupted, would have the greatest impact on service availability on a national or
regional basis.
As noted in the Threat’s Segment Report, the threat landscape will continue to evolve. As a
result, the profile should support agile and adaptive methods of obtaining threat intelligence
and responding to them.
The cable segment group as part of its analysis reviewed the Ecosystem’s Segment Report. As
noted in this report, the cable segment concurs that the global Internet Ecosystem is not
confined to delivery or access “networks”, and cable network operators as part of their risk
management programs need to take into consideration the broader ecosystem.
For the use case below the assumption is for a large sized cable network operator.
A. Generic Profile Example
The table below illustrates a hypothetical profile as the result of an enterprise
employing the methodology described in this report. The profile uses the 24 priority
practices and augments them with anticipated outcomes. The anticipated outcomes
provide a means for tracking the overall implementation of the profile.
Prioritized Practice Anticipated Outcomes
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems within the organization are Inventory of physical devices and systems in
inventoried direct support of critical (core) infrastructure
is completed.
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and applications within the organization
Software platforms and applications in direct
are inventoried
of support of critical (core) infrastructure are
completed.
88The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices, data and software) are Prioritization of resources in direct support
prioritized based on their classification, criticality, and business value critical (core) systems is accomplished and in
effect.
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical functions for delivery of critical
Dependencies and critical functions are
services are established
identified and supported to ensure
dependencies are met.
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information security policy is established Security policy in place.
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & responsibilities are coordinated Roles and responsibilities are aligned in
and aligned with internal roles and external partners effect.
Identities and credentials are established and
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are managed for authorized
operational as they relate to access to
devices and users
devices by users.
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to detect potential cybersecurity
Monitoring is operational and utilized.
events
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is monitored to detect potential
Physical security established and monitored
cybersecurity events
per guidelines in PR.AC‐2
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is monitored to detect potential
Monitoring of personnel is active per
cybersecurity threats
multiple framework subcategories (PR.AC‐1‐
2‐3‐4/PR.MA‐2/PR.PT‐3)
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected Malicious code is found and mediated per
DE.CM‐1.
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring for unauthorized personnel, connections,
No unauthorized access occurs.
devices, and software is performed
PR.AC‐2: Physical access to assets is managed and protected
Physical access controls are in place and
effective per established guidelines.
PR.AC‐3: Remote access is managed Remote access controls are active only for
those with operational need.
PR.AC‐4: Access permissions are managed, incorporating the Access permissions are in place and applied
principles of least privilege and separation of duties on a need to know and compartmentalized
basis.
PR.AC‐5: Network integrity is protected, incorporating network
Network is properly designed and
segregation where appropriate
operational per security best practices.
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected Data transit protection policies and
procedures are in place.
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure availability is maintained
Capacity planning and management in effect.
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of organizational assets is performed
Remote maintenance is performed per
in a manner that prevents unauthorized access
guidelines in PR.AC‐3
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is controlled, incorporating the
Access to systems and assets is performed
principle of least functionality
per guidelines in PR.AC‐4
89The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
PR.PT‐4: Communications and control networks are protected
Protection is established and operational.
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or after an event Response plan is effective in mitigating
further threat.
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained Incidents no longer a threat.
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated Incidents no longer active.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed during or after an event
Network is back to fully operational status.
XI. Recommendations: Cable Segment
 No new regulations are warranted to address conformity to the NIST Framework as it
relates to the cable segment.
 Continued flexibility is essential in the use and conformity to the NIST Framework given the
diversity within the cable segment. As noted in the Threats sub‐group report, the threat
landscape is constantly evolving and requires agile and adaptive methods for managing the
risk. Cable network operators are best positioned to understand their cybersecurity risks
and should be afforded flexibility to apply the framework to their business needs. The FCC
should avoid taking a checklist approach to cybersecurity.
 DHS should continue as the Sector Specific Agency for Telecom in order to advance the
established programs and evolution of the NIST Framework. The FCC should continue to
partner with industry via the Government Coordinating Council (GCC) and/or via voluntary
measures such as CSRIC.
90The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.3 SATELLITE SEGMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
91TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ......................................................................................... 93
II. Introduction .................................................................................................... 93
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology ................................................................ 94
A. Objectives ................................................................................................. 94
B. Scope ........................................................................................................ 95
C. Methodology .......................................................................................... 102
IV. Results and Findings ...................................................................................... 103
A. Alignment with NIST Cybersecurity Framework ..................................... 103
B. Findings .................................................................................................. 113
V. Illustrative Use Case ...................................................................................... 113
A. Identify ................................................................................................... 113
B. Protect .................................................................................................... 114
C. Detect ..................................................................................................... 114
D. Respond ................................................................................................. 115
E. Recover .................................................................................................. 116
VI. Conclusion & Recommendations .................................................................. 116
VII. Acknowledgments ......................................................................................... 117
VIII. Appendix: Informative References .............................................................. 117
92The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. Executive Summary
The Satellite Segment is a subgroup within the CSRIC Working Group 4 effort focused on
adapting the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and its emphasis on cybersecurity risk
management, to the satellite communications industry. Consistent with the emphasis of the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework, the focus of the Satellite Segment’s analysis was on critical
infrastructure components of the satellite industry and critical satellite services. With this
scope in mind, the satellite segment examined the risk management categories and
subcategories of the NIST Framework, identified those most relevant to the protection of
critical infrastructure and critical service, and evaluated them further based on their
effectiveness and difficulty. The satellite segment then applied this modified framework to a
hypothetical example of a cybersecurity vulnerability affecting the satellite industry to illustrate
how satellite service providers already apply these concepts in their risk management
practices, and to suggest mechanisms for more fully integrating the risk management principles
of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
The analytical framework set out below represents a consensus prioritization of the NIST
Framework’s subcategories, agreed to by a diverse group of satellite industry experts, and can
be used as a model by satellite industry members seeking to implement the NIST Framework in
their organization. The satellite segment subgroup developed this prioritized adaptation of the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework based on rigorous analysis and developed a use case illustrating
how the framework can be applied practically within an organization, however, this report is
not intended to provide a checklist or prescriptive solution for cybersecurity risk management.
Perhaps more important than the end product, in terms of managing cybersecurity risk, is the
analytical process of identifying the scope of infrastructure components to be protected;
examining the NIST Framework’s recommendations in light of an organization’s own priorities,
capabilities, and vulnerabilities; and developing an implementation that is robust, self‐
reinforcing, and catered to the specific needs of an organization.
II. Introduction
The Satellite Segment is a subgroup within the CSRIC Working Group 4 effort focused on
adapting the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and its emphasis on cybersecurity risk
management, to the satellite communications industry. As illustrated below, the satellite
segment subgroup had participation from a wide cross‐section of the satellite industry,
including service providers in the fixed, mobile, and direct‐to‐home/broadcasting satellite
services, both government and consumer‐focused service providers, and manufacturers of
satellite communications devices and infrastructure.
Satellite communications services are key to many critical infrastructure sectors. Four of the
critical infrastructure sectors most reliant on satellite services are Emergency Services, Defense
Industrial Base, Information Technology, and Communications. In each of these sectors,
satellite communications provide a primary mechanism for mission critical communications.
However, satellite communications are unique among communications technology in terms of
their ubiquity and survivability, and therefore have additional importance and backup systems
for many other sectors. Additional components of critical infrastructure that might subscribe to
93The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
satellite services for remote operations or emergency backup include Agriculture and Food;
Water; Dams; Healthcare and Public Health; Government Facilities; Commercial Facilities;
National Monuments and Icons; Energy; Nuclear Reactors, Materials, and Waste;
Transportation Systems; Banking and Finance; Chemical; Critical Manufacturing; and Postal and
Shipping.
The satellite industry has a long history and substantial experience in analyzing and improving
security, even beyond that of some other commercial communications technologies. In
particular, to support the demands of military and government users, many satellite operators
already comply with various controls, checklists, and certifications – including DoD Information
Assurance requirements, international standards, and other criteria. Because of the nature of
satellite communications technology, many military and government services share
infrastructure components and systems with commercial and enterprise services – both in the
space‐based and ground‐based segments of the system. This means that satellite
communications service providers are leaders in areas like encryption, access control, and
overall system hardness. These protections make the entirety of satellite systems – including
non‐Federal users – safer.
Satellite Segment Subgroup Members
Name Company
Donna Bethea Murphy ‐ Chair Iridium Communications Inc.
Anthony Acosta Northrop Grumman
Andre Christian O3b Government
Shelton Darensburg ViaSat
Steve Doiron Echostar/Hughes Network Systems
Vinit Duggal Intelsat
Andrew D’Uva Providence‐Access
Victor Einfeldt Iridium Communications Inc.
Rick Foster Lockheed Martin
Aniruddha Karmarkar LockheedMartin
Greg Kulon Boeing
Ethan Lucarelli Wiley Rein LLP
Jennifer Manner Echostar
Martin Pitson Telesat
Joel Rademacher Iridium Communications Inc.
Alan Rinker Boeing
Derek Schatz Boeing
J.J. Shaw O3b Government
Fred Travis Iridium Communications Inc.
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology
A. Objectives
The mission statement of CSRIC IV Working Group 4 is to develop voluntary
mechanisms to provide macro‐level assurance to the FCC and the public that
94The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
communications providers are taking the necessary corporate and operational
measures to manage cybersecurity risks across the enterprise through the application
of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, or an equivalent construct. These assurances:
(1) can be tailored by individual companies to suit their unique needs, characteristics,
and risks (i.e., not one‐size‐fits‐all), (2) are based on meaningful indicators of successful
(and unsuccessful) cyber risk management (i.e., outcome‐based indicators as opposed
to process metrics), and (3) allow for meaningful assessments both internally (e.g., CSO
and senior corporate management) and externally (e.g., business partners).
To fulfill this mission, the satellite subgroup analyzed the NIST Cybersecurity Framework
version 1.0 from the perspective of the satellite industry to conform the practices and
processes described therein for the satellite segment of the communications sector.
The NIST Cybersecurity framework is intended to be applied flexibly according to the
needs and characteristics of a particular enterprise or industry. At its core, the
Framework is a voluntary mechanism that can be adapted and incorporated into an
organization’s practices. To facilitate that process, the satellite segment Subgroup
examined the categories and subcategories of practices described in the NIST
Framework to identify those most relevant to protecting critical infrastructure and
critical services. Combined with input from the various Working Group 4 Feeder
Groups, the satellite segment Subgroup composed an example target profile for
protection of critical satellite services, and developed an illustrative use case of how the
Framework might be implemented by a satellite communications service provider.
B. Scope
Given the initial focus of the NIST cybersecurity framework in critical infrastructure, the
satellite segment group focused initially on identifying the aspects of the satellite
communications system that should be considered critical infrastructure and the critical
services provided by satellite communications. These critical infrastructure and critical
services define the scope of the NIST Framework alignment discussed below in Section
IV.
Working Group 4 determined that the definition of critical infrastructure should be
consistent with the definition outlined in President Obama’s Executive Order 13636 on
“Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,” which states that critical
infrastructure includes those “systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital
to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would
have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public
health or safety, or any combination of those matters.”43
Further, in 2012 the Communications Sector, in partnership with Department of
Homeland Security (DHS), completed the 2012 Risk Assessment for Communications
(referred to going forward as the National Sector Risk Assessment or NSRA), which
assessed physical and cyber threats to the communications infrastructure. The risk
43 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
95The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
assessment was intended to further the goals of the Communications Sector Specific
Plan developed jointly with DHS in 2010, to identify and protect national critical
network components, ensure overall network reliability, maintain “always‐on” service
for critical customers and quickly restore critical communications functions and services
following a disruption. The satellite segment subgroup agreed with the other Segment
groups that the scope of its efforts should build upon the work already completed in
the NSRA.
Taking the NSRA model as a starting place, the satellite subgroup then developed its
own models of satellite systems architecture from which it extracted and identified the
critical infrastructure elements. These critical elements delineate the scope of assets
intended to be protected through the further analysis below. The group also identified
the critical services provided by satellite communications systems. Ensuring availability
of these services is a goal of the cybersecurity risk management processes described in
the Analysis section of this report.
A key assumption of the scoping exercise is that government owned or controlled
satellite systems are outside of the scope of the working group’s analysis, as the
subgroup is an industry segment group, and private sector entities may not have
primary or exclusive control over cybersecurity risk management for those Federal
systems. Importantly, however, many government/military services also operate over
commercial satellite systems, and these services have increased cybersecurity needs
often requiring commercial systems to meet Federal security specifications. This
leveraging of commercial infrastructure has the additional benefit of increasing the
overall security of assets used in the provision of commercial services.
96The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
NSRA Architectural Model & Assumptions
The Communications National Sector Risk Assessment (NSRA) architecture model44 (see
Figure below) identifies national level communications architecture elements that are at
elevated risk and serves as a baseline to prioritize the communications infrastructure.
The NSRA provides a high level reference model for all segments of the Communications
Sector including broadcast, cable, satellite, wireless and wireline. Building upon the NSRA
Model, the satellite segment developed the two segment‐specific models below, which
represent example Fixed Satellite Service (FSS) and Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) system
architectures.
44 See Department of Homeland Security, Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council Annual Update
(2012), available at http://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/cipac‐%202012‐final‐508‐%20compliant‐
%20version.pdf.
97The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Fixed Satellite Service (FSS)
Mobile Satellite Service (MSS)
98The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Based on the CSRIC WG 4 Satellite Segment Model and the definition of critical
infrastructure contained in Executive Order 1363645 the following elements and services
are considered for purposes of the scope of this Segment report.
1) Identify Areas of Critical Focus or Assets
Satellite communications system architectures are each unique and purpose‐built to
best serve the needs of the network operator’s target market. While there is less
uniformity among satellite systems than might exist in other segments, there are some
core elements and functions similar across most systems.
Satellite/Space Vehicle: The space‐based component of the communications platform.
Satellite systems can come in a variety of configurations (GSO, NGSO) and orbits (LEO,
MEO, GEO). Service in a geographic region may be provided by a single spacecraft (e.g.,
in a GSO FSS system) or through multiple vehicle constellation (e.g., in a NGSO MSS
system). The satellite has the following critical components:
1. Payload (receiver, amplifier, high gain antenna)
2. Bus (propulsion, attitude, thermal, command processor)
Telemetry, Tracking, and Command (TT&C) Facilities/Spacecraft Operations Center
(SOC): Functionality to maintain health and safety of the spacecraft. It is assumed that
SOC redundancy is available to maintain operations with switching timelines that
support control transition should one site become unavailable/unusable. The SOC may
have the following critical components:
1. Large parabolic antenna
2. RF equipment
3. Command processor
4. Ranging system
5. Inter‐facility link
6. Control center
7. Flight dynamic control system
8. Radio Frequency Auto Tracking (RFAT)
9. Generator/UPS
Network Control Center/Network Operations Center (NOC): Depending on service type,
the operator may require ability to add new users onto active links (e.g., bring up
communications services to mobile emergency responders if not previously initiated).
NOC operations not likely to be critical include billing/customer care,
database/archiving, change control, planning, network management for non‐critical
users. Critical areas needed to be maintained will be dependent on NOC architecture
and type of emergency service required.
1. Account activation system
2. Network management system
3. Carrier monitoring
45 See EO 13636.
99The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
4. Generator/UPS
5. Monitoring center
6. Terrestrial link to gateways
Gateway facilities: Ground equipment and facilities for managing subscribers,
controlling subscriber access to services, providing billing for services, and providing
interoperation between subscriber sessions and other networks. Depending on the
system architecture, gateway components may include:
1. Large parabolic antenna
2. RF equipment
3. Baseband equipment
4. Fiber optic backbone
5. M&C sub‐system
6. Generator/UPS
7. Mobile Switching Center
8. Access Network Controller (ANC)
9. Location Server
10. Servers for Various Services
11. Subscriber Database
Teleport Network (TPN): Terrestrial mesh of multi‐terminal ground stations (Teleports)
providing bulk space‐ground connectivity, as well as interconnecting the various
elements of Operations and Gateway Segments; each Teleport (TP) is managed by a
Teleport Controller (TPC) and includes a number of Feeder Link Terminals (FLTs).
1. Teleport Controller (TPC)
2. Antenna
3. RF equipment
4. Baseband equipment
5. Fiber optic backbone
6. Monitor and Control (M&C) sub‐system
7. Generator/UPS
Uplink Facility: This facility provides uplink of content to be distributed to subscriber
equipment.
1. Antenna
2. RF equipment
3. Baseband equipment
4. Fiber optic backbone
5. M&C sub‐system
6. Generator/UPS
Radio Frequency Links: The RF links themselves are a core component potentially
subject to attack. These provide communications to the satellite (which can include
service links, feeders, or TT&C) and downlink communications to subscriber equipment.
1. Uplinks
100The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
2. Downlinks
3. Intersatellite Links
4. Feeder links
5. Primary and backup command and control
2) Identify Critical Services
There are four of the Critical Infrastructure sectors that are more dependent on use of
satellite services, including;
 Emergency Services
 Defense Industrial Base
 Information Technology
 Communications
Additional Critical Infrastructure items could also be subscribing to satellite services for
remote operations or as emergency backup. These include: Agriculture and Food;
Water; Dams; Healthcare and Public Health; Government Facilities; Commercial
Facilities; National Monuments and Icons; Energy; Nuclear Reactors, Materials, and
Waste; Transportation Systems; Banking and Finance; Chemical; Critical Manufacturing;
and Postal and Shipping.
The Federal Communications Commission and International Telecommunication Union
define three categories of satellite communications services, each of which support
distinct critical services.
Fixed Satellite Services (FSS): A satellite service where the earth stations do not move
during transmission. FSS supports voice, video, and data, which can be used for
broadcast distribution, point‐to‐point, and point‐to‐multipoint communications.
 Terrestrial Infrastructure Emergency Backup: Expected to be primarily mobile
users, civil emergency response.
 Satellite electronic news gathering
 Emergency Response Communications
 Connectivity to Rural Communities – Certain remote communities are
exclusively dependent on satellite for external communications (PSTN/data)
 Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) – Used to gather data and
control facilities such as pipeline, power generation and distribution, remote air
traffic control facilities, rail facilities.
 Access to funds – ATM and point of sale so local population can access funds in
areas where terrestrial infrastructure is inoperative.
Mobile Satellite Services (MSS): A satellite service designed to support mobile ground
stations. MSS supports voice, data, and broadcast services.
 Telephony: Circuit Switched voice and data calls that communicate real‐time or
near real‐time information.
101The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Messaging: Short messages that can either be person‐to‐person, machine‐to‐
machine, or many‐to‐many as the case with burst messaging. Critical for status
updates and when voice calls aren’t possible to make. Messages can also be
queued for delivery if service is interrupted temporarily.
 Military/Tactical Communications: Systems that support Military
Communications are likely to have more importance with regards to overall
security, health and safety of the population and the warfighter, and require
additional protections. Such protections would likely include secure/protected
satellite TT&C and mission communications (e.g., NSA Certified cryptography,
Information Assurance, and possibly anti‐jam protection from both nuisance
interference and intentional attack). Further protections for communications
supporting active operations may include physical security of all satellite and
network operations areas and teleport/gateway hardware to include restricted
access and stay‐out zones (i.e., physical distance in kilometers from public
access area to hardware installations to prevent physical or electronic attack).
Additional separation (electronic guards and or physical separation) may be
required for separation from public interfaces to minimize the potential for
cyber‐attack.
 Mobile data (high speed/short burst)
 Machine‐to‐Machine
 GMDSS: Internationally agreed‐upon set of safety procedures, types of
equipment, and communication protocols used to increase safety and make it
easier to rescue distressed ships, boats and aircraft. The system is intended to
perform the following functions: alerting (including position determination of
the unit in distress), search and rescue coordination, locating (homing),
maritime safety information broadcasts, general communications, and bridge‐
to‐bridge communications.
 Emergency Response communications: Emergency Services to remote areas
with no terrestrial infrastructure (e.g. support to firefighters in remote areas of
Western US).
Broadcasting‐Satellite Service (BSS)/Direct‐to‐Home (DTH): A receive‐only service where
information flows from a central hub station to a large population. Typical uses are
subscription‐based television or radio services.
 Emergency Alert Broadcasts
 Local news and weather information
C. Methodology
The work of the satellite segment Subgroup was conducted in 4 main phases. First, the
Subgroup defined the scope of the analysis, which, drawing from Executive Order 13636
and discussions with the other Segment and Feeder Groups, was determined to be limited
to critical infrastructure and services. Next, the Subgroup applied an analytical framework
developed in conjunction with the larger Working Group 4 to consider whether each
102The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
functional area, category and sub‐category of the NIST framework was in or out of scope,
how they may be applied, their effectiveness in protecting against cyber threats, and
difficulty to implementation. In conducting this analysis the Subgroup also collaborated
with and considered input related to barriers to implementation and the various threats
identified by the Threats Feeder Group. Third, the Subgroup developed an illustrative use
case to demonstrate how an enterprise might implement the risk management approach of
the NIST Framework in its own practices. Finally, the sub‐working group shared findings
and recommendations and exchanged views with the other sub‐working groups and
collaborated in the production of the overall WG 4 report.
The work of the subgroup largely was conducted telephonically through regular conference
calls within the satellite segment, in conjunction with other feeder and segment groups,
and as a working group as a whole. The satellite segment Subgroup also participated in
several face to face meetings with the entirety of WG4 and exchanged numerous drafts and
input documents over email.
IV. Results and Findings
A. Alignment with NIST Cybersecurity Framework
To align with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, this document will assist participants in
the satellite segment by tailoring the framework’s categories and subcategories to best
serve the segment’s unique cybersecurity challenges. In doing so, the satellite segment
evaluated each category and subcategory in terms of its criticality, difficulty, and
effectiveness.
Criticality:
The satellite segment group approaches the entire project from the perspective of
protecting critical services and critical infrastructure. When it examined the categories and
subcategories of the NIST framework to determine which were most applicable to the
satellite segment, the satellite segment group eliminated those that were not related to
protecting critical services and critical infrastructure as out of scope for this analysis.
Difficulty:
Difficulty was determined as a product of cost for implementation (in terms of money as
well as other resources), complexity, time taken to complete the process, human factors,
and likelihood of completing the task.
Effectiveness:
Effectiveness was construed as a measurement of how directly the process impacts the
likelihood or severity of a subsequent cybersecurity event. Processes that produce an
identifiable result in terms of reduced vulnerability were deemed more effective. In
evaluating effectiveness, the satellite segment subgroup assumed that the process was
successfully completed (as likelihood of completion is accounted for in difficulty) and
looked at the result of the process.
103The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Further assumptions:
 All satellite service providers were seen as “medium” businesses. The resources
required to develop and launch a satellite system generally preclude “small”
operators, and to the extent there are small entities, they are not involved in the
provision of critical services. When viewed in the context of the overall
communications sector, satellite operators are much smaller than large telcos, and
thus are not “large” entities.
 Internal policies/procedures and government regulations are assumed to be
followed and implemented faithfully. There is no need for a separate process
instructing the enterprise to follow these policies.
 All processes and practices contemplated by the subcategories were considered as
limited in applicability to critical services and infrastructure. Thus an inventory of
devices and systems was assumed to refer to devices and systems used in critical
services and infrastructure.
 Continuous process improvement and self‐reflection is assumed.
The matrix below collects the satellite segment’s analysis of the NIST Framework’s
subcategories according to the criteria discussed above. Subcategories that were determined
not related to protecting critical infrastructure and services were not included on the matrix.
The remaining subcategories were assigned a value for difficulty and effectiveness, through
application of the definitions set forth above. For purposes of prioritization, a higher numerical
value in Difficulty corresponded to a lower actual level of difficulty, whereas a higher value in
Effectiveness suggested a greater and more identifiable impact when the subcategory is
successfully implemented. Where the group felt that additional explanation of the application
of the subcategory was warranted, this was included in the Application column.
While the numerical values are assigned in a way that could accommodate prioritization of the
subcategories through looking at the highest aggregate score, the analytical matrix below is not
intended for uniform application and simple prioritization. In some cases, difficult to
implement subcategories might have a lower aggregate score than their actual importance
should suggest. Moreover – and in keeping with the flexibility inherent in the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework – this analytical matrix is intended to be illustrative and to provide a
model for companies to follow in adapting the NIST Framework to their own operations. An
application of the NIST Framework done in the context of the specific needs and capabilities of
a particular company will be a much more effective tool for cybersecurity risk management.
104The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
Identify Asset ID.AM‐1: Physical Organizations need 4 5
(ID) management devices and systems to assess what is
(ID.AM) within the organization mission critical and
are inventoried what is
administrative.
Extremely effective,
it is essential to
know what you
have.
ID.AM‐2: Software Difficulty might 4 5
platforms and increase with scale
applications within the of organization
organization are
inventoried
ID.AM‐3: Organizational It is essential to map 3 3
communication and and understand the
data flows are mapped flows within critical
mission threads, and
to understand
dependencies that
create risks of
interruption of
communications/
processes.
ID.AM‐4: External 4 5
information systems are
catalogued
ID.AM‐5: Resources Resources should be 2 3
(e.g., hardware, devices, prioritized based on
data and software) are mission criticality;
prioritized based on business and
their classification, corporate functions
criticality, and business are not critical to
value sustaining the
mission.
Difficult to make
distinctions between
absolute mission
critical, etc. There
are not a lot of tools
that can do that
automatically.
105The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
Business ID.BE‐1: Organization's 3 2
Environment role in the supply chain
(ID.BE) is identified and
communicated
ID.BE‐2: Organization's 3 2
place in critical
infrastructure and its
industry sector is
identified and
communicated
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies 2 2
and critical functions for
delivery of critical
services are established
ID.BE‐5: Resilience 3 4
requirements to support
delivery of critical
services are established
Governance ID.GV‐1: Organizational 4 3
(ID.GV) information security
policy is established
ID.GV‐2: Information Related to 3 3
security roles & establishing and
responsibilities are governing specific
coordinated and aligned people to implement
with internal roles and security policy
external partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and 1 3
regulatory requirements
regarding cybersecurity,
including privacy and
civil liberties obligations,
are understood and
managed
Risk Assessment ID.RA‐1: Asset 2 5
(ID.RA) vulnerabilities are
identified and
documented
ID.RA‐2: Threat and Difficulty is acquiring 2 3
vulnerability and identifying good
information is received information for
from information critical
sharing forums and infrastructure.
sources
106The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
ID.RA‐3: Threats, both 2 3
internal and external,
are identified and
documented
ID.RA‐4: Potential Business can be read 2 3
business impacts and to include both
likelihoods are identified operations and
business
development, or can
be limited just to
business impacts.
Focus here is on
impact to mission
critical operations,
not overall business.
ID.RA‐5: Threats, 2 4
vulnerabilities,
likelihoods, and impacts
are used to determine
risk
ID.RA‐6: Risk responses 2 4
are identified and
prioritized
Protect Access Control PR.AC‐1: Identities and 3 4
(PR) (PR.AC) credentials are managed
for authorized devices
and users
PR.AC‐2:Physical access 5 4
to assets is managed
and protected
PR.AC‐3:Remote access 2 4
is managed
PR.AC‐4:Access Important for the 2 4
permissions are industry to move in
managed, incorporating this direction.
the principles of least
privilege and separation
of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network 3 4
integrity is protected,
incorporating network
segregation where
appropriate
107The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
PR.AT‐2: Privileged Implementing 2 3
users understand roles effective training
& responsibilities across levels of an
enterprise is
difficult.
PR.AT‐4: Senior 2 3
executives understand
roles & responsibilities
PR.AT‐5: Physical and 4 5
information security
personnel understand
roles and responsibility
Data Security PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is 4 5
(PR.DS) protected
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit 4 5
is protected
PR.DS‐3: Assets are 2 4
formally managed
throughout removal,
transfers and disposition
PR.DS‐4: Adequate 3 4
capacity to ensure
availability is maintained
PR.DS‐5: Protections Publicly available 3 4
against data leaks are systems can be
implemented leveraged to
accomplish this
PR.DS‐6: Integrity 2 4
checking mechanisms
are used to verify
software, firmware, and
information integrity
Information PR.IP‐1: A baseline 4 4
Protection configuration of
Processes and information
Procedures technology/industrial
(PR.IP) control systems is
created and maintained
PR.IP‐3: Configuration 4 4
change control
processes are in place
108The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
PR.IP‐4: Backups of 3 4
information are
conducted, maintained
and tested periodically
PR.IP‐7: Protection Continuous 4 3
processes are improvement of
continuously improved processes should be
a global activity.
PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of Information about 2 3
protection technologies patches,
is shared with improvements, and
appropriate parties upgrades on
protection
technologies needs
to be disseminated
throughout the
community.
PR.IP‐9: Response plans 1 2
(Incident Response and
Business Continuity) and
recovery plans (Incident
Recovery and Disaster
Recovery) are in place
and managed
PR.IP‐11: Cybersecurity The level of detail 3 2
is included in human included in HR
resources practices practices would
(e.g., deprovisioning, depend on the policy
personnel screening) and needs of the
enterprise; however
these processes
need to address risks
of malicious insider
attacks.
PR.IP‐12: A vulnerability [covers ID‐RM, and 3 2
management plan is RS.RM‐3]
developed and
implemented
Maintenance PR.MA‐1: Maintenance 4 4
(PR.MA) and repair of
organizational assets is
performed and logged
in a timely manner, with
approved and controlled
tools
109The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
PR.MA‐2: Remote 3 2
maintenance of
organizational assets is
performed in a manner
that prevents
unauthorized access
Detect Anomalies and DE.AE‐1: A baseline of 3 3
(DE) Events network operations and
(DE.AE) expected data flows for
users and systems is
established and
managed
DE.AE‐2: Detected 4 4
events are analyzed to
understand attack
targets and methods
DE.AE‐4: Impact of Should be done at 4 4
events is determined the appropriate level
and limited to
critical functional
capabilities. To
detect an event and
develop an
appropriate
response it is
important
immediately to
know the impact to
critical network
components.
DE.AE‐5: Incident alert 4 4
thresholds are
established
Continuous DE.CM‐1: The network is 4 3
Monitoring monitored to detect
(DE.CM) potential cybersecurity
events
DE.CM‐2: The physical 4 3
environment is
monitored to detect
potential cybersecurity
events
110The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
DE.CM‐3: Personnel Limited to 2 4
activity is monitored to addressing the
detect potential malicious insider
cybersecurity threats threat. Ideally this
monitoring is tied to
a threshold or
trigger—not actively
monitoring all
employee activity.
Goal is to identify
unauthorized
access/high‐risk
activity.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious 3 4
code is detected
DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized Can be system‐ 1 5
mobile code is detected wide/firmware, or
code in an individual
device. Both are
critical.
DE.CM‐6: External Outside 1 5
service provider activity firms/contractors
is monitored to detect can be a source of
potential cybersecurity breaches. Need to
events monitor what they
are doing.
Detection DE.DP‐1: Roles and 4 4
Processes responsibilities for
(DE.DP) detection are well
defined to ensure
accountability
DE.DP‐6: Detection An overall statement 4 3
processes are of continuous
continuously improved process
improvement should
be made.
Respond Communications RS.CO‐2: Events are 3 3
(RS.CO) reported consistent with
established criteria
RS.CO‐3: Information is 3 3
shared consistent with
response plans
111The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Function Category Subcategory Application Difficulty Effectiveness
(lower is (higher is
more more
difficult) effective)
RS.CO‐4: Coordination 3 3
with stakeholders
occurs consistent with
response plans
Analysis RS.AN‐1: Notifications 3 3
(RS.AN) from detection systems
are investigated
RS.AN‐2: The impact of 2 2
the incident is
understood
Mitigation RS.MI‐1: Incidents are 2 3
(RS.MI) contained
RS.MI‐2: Incidents are 2 4
mitigated
Improvements RS.IM‐1: Response plans 4 2
(RS.IM) incorporate lessons
learned
112The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Findings
 Satellite system operators already have complex and rigorous security and risk
management processes in place, and the NIST Framework provides an effective,
flexible mechanism for analyzing, improving, and communicating internally about
those established practices.
 In particular, to support the demands of military and government users, many
satellite operators already comply with various controls, checklists, and
certifications – including DoD Information Assurance requirements, international
standards, and other criteria applicable to the entire system. This means that
satellite communications service providers are leaders in areas like encryption,
access control, and overall system hardness. These protections make the entirety of
satellite systems – including non‐Federal users – safer.
 Although there are some common architectural principles, as discussed in the Scope
section of this report, each satellite system is technologically unique to an extent
not present in any other segment of the Communications sector.
 The NIST Framework is effective because it identifies functional categories of
processes that industry members can self‐tailor according to their particular needs
and capabilities. Rigid, prescriptive approaches will not best serve the goals of
increasing security and better managing risk.
 The analytical framework above represents a consensus prioritization of the NIST
Framework’s subcategories, agreed to by a diverse group of satellite industry
experts, and can be used as a model by satellite industry members seeking to
implement the Framework in their organization. Perhaps more important than the
end product, in terms of managing cybersecurity risk, however, is the analytical
process of identifying the scope of infrastructure components to be protected;
examining the NIST Framework’s recommendations in light of an organization’s own
priorities, capabilities, and vulnerabilities; and developing an implementation that is
robust, self‐reinforcing, and catered to the specific needs of an organization.
V. Illustrative Use Case
The following use case illustrates how the risk management principles of the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework are implemented in the satellite segment on a day‐to‐day basis. This
generic use case is based on actual incidents affecting commercial satellite communications
systems, although specific facts have been omitted, revised, or consolidated for illustrative
purposes and to protect classified or proprietary information. Although the use case is ordered
according to the structure of the NIST framework, it also demonstrates how various risk
management processes happen simultaneously and are mutually reinforcing.
A. Identify
Security personnel at satellite service providers constantly receive threat and vulnerability
information from multiple sources, including industry information sharing forums,
government channels, external databases of threat and vulnerability information (e.g.,
CERT Vulnerability Notes Database), published reports, and in‐house security audits.
(ID.RA‐2). Information security roles and responsibilities are clearly defined within the
113The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
organization and communicated appropriately to external partners. (ID.GV‐2). This
includes designating points of contact within the service provider organization to receive
threat information from partners. Additionally, communication and data flows within an
organization are mapped and clearly understood, (ID.AM‐3), ensuring that threat
information, once communicated to an organization, is disseminated to the appropriate
personnel to take protective action.
In the illustrative case, a security researcher identifies vulnerabilities in specific satellite
user terminals with hardcoded login credentials and undocumented proprietary protocols
for accessing device firmware. Satellite service providers learn of the vulnerabilities
through their information collection mechanisms. For example, some affected service
providers are notified through established channels of communication with the Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT) Coordination Center or the National Coordinating Center
for Communications’ (NCC) Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Comm‐ISAC), both
sponsored by DHS. Multiple industry groups, including the Satellite Industry Association
(SIA) the Global VSAT Forum (GVF), and the Space Data Association (SDA), also disseminate
the vulnerability information and facilitate coordination among industry members.
B. Protect
Protection mechanisms are in place to prevent vulnerabilities from developing, or to
contain and mitigate the effect of any exploit. Satellite service providers implement
multiple layers of security and separation within their systems to isolate and insulate
critical infrastructure and services from the network edge and other non‐mission critical
enterprise systems. (PR.AC‐5). Particularly relevant to this use case, system access is
closely controlled and monitored, particularly for critical services. Identities and credentials
are managed, (PR.AC‐1), physical access to infrastructure assets is controlled (PR.AC‐2),
remote access is monitored, managed, and limited as appropriate, (PR.AC‐3), and clear
processes are in place to secure and control changes to infrastructure or user terminal
configuration and firmware. (PR.IP‐3).
In the case of the user terminal vulnerability, analysis of the threat (discussed in the context
of the Detect function, below) reveals that some protections already in place mitigate the
identified vulnerability. For example, some of the affected equipment can only be accessed
physically or through the satellite service provider network’s interconnection with the
Internet. This limits the opportunities for exploiting the vulnerability and creates effective
mechanisms for monitoring. In the airborne context, the satellite terminal is onboard an
aircraft with multiple layers of mitigation and protection for the network that will prevent
unauthorized access to the terminal, whether from an individual on the ground or even on
the aircraft. For example, the affected terminal is contained in an electronics bay below
the floor of the aircraft, inaccessible to anyone in the cabin.
C. Detect
Detection includes ongoing active monitoring of satellite communications systems and
services to identify events and anomalies, (DE.CM‐1), analysis of detected events to
understand the target, methods, and mitigation opportunities (DE.AE‐2), and an evaluation
114The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
of the impacts and consequences of a detected event. (DE.AE‐4). Effective detection
requires clearly defined roles and responsibilities within the security team and organization
as a whole, to ensure that threats are detected and fully analyzed, and that information
and practices developed through the Identify and Protect functions are appropriately
leveraged. Depending on an organization’s resources and Framework Implementation Tier,
various scenarios might be run to determine the possible effect of an exploit of the
vulnerability.
In the illustrative use case, the vulnerability information gained through the Identify
function is analyzed in the context of existing controls, policies, and security features to
evaluate the nature of the threat. It is determined that the vulnerability identified does not
pose a serious threat to critical infrastructure because of multiple layers of protection that
were in place. For example, the vulnerability is limited to user terminals and cannot affect
central network functions. Additionally, in cases where physical proximity is required to
exploit the vulnerability, there are additional layers of protection that decrease the
likelihood of a serious exploit.
However, while the threat could not affect the critical infrastructure, there might be some
potential for interference with individual units or communications sessions supporting
critical services. As such, the satellite service providers begin appropriate measures to
respond to the threat.
D. Respond
Response synthesizes the information and practices coming out of the Identify, Protect, and
Detect functions to address and resolve an event effectively. Response begins when events
identified through the Detect function are reported and prioritized consistent with
established criteria. (RS.CO‐2). Upon receiving the report, security personnel begin to
analyze the vulnerability, assess its impact, and develop solutions. (RS.AN‐1, RS.AN‐2).
During the course of executing a response, information about the threat and identified
mitigation is shared internally among operational and security teams, (RS.CO‐3), and
appropriate coordination occurs with users, partners, and other stakeholders. (RS.CO‐4).
Ultimately, the goal of effective response is to contain an event, (RS.MI‐1), and mitigate its
effect (RS.MI‐2). Response efforts should feed directly back into and strengthen the
processes undertaken through the Identify, Protect, and Detect functions, in order to
improve overall incident response and enterprise risk management. (RS.IM‐1)
In the illustrative use case, service providers analyze the vulnerability information and
develop a series of reactive and proactive steps to contain and mitigate the event.
Reactively, service providers implement new mechanisms for detecting and blocking use of
the hardcoded credentials at the points where the satellite system interconnects with
public terrestrial networks, thereby blocking remote unauthorized use of the device.
Security updates are made to device firmware, which are distributed to terminals through
standard channels.
Proactively, service providers incorporate lessons learned into operational and security
processes going forward. Companies with vulnerability models and other security tools for
115The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
systems they develop and deploy test those models against the event and revise them to
improve protection.
Service providers also coordinate with numerous parties in the course of addressing the
vulnerability. Service providers work with partners and equipment manufacturers to
develop and deploy fixes for user terminals. Service providers also communicate with
customers to make them aware of any required fix or changed practices. Because of the
strong partnership between the satellite industry and its military and government
customers, satellite providers communicate with government to ensure that questions are
answered and needs are addressed. Response is also coordinated through third party
mechanisms like CERT or industry bodies, to bolster the collective security knowledge base
and improve overall security.
E. Recover
Recovery is the process of restoring any capabilities or services that were impaired due to
an event and maintaining plans for incident response. For the satellite industry, this means
ensuring that critical communications services are preserved or restored. It also involves
improving protection, detection, and response efforts; for the satellite industry, continuous
process improvement is incorporated as an essential aspect of each of the Framework
functions.
In the illustrative use case, there is no detrimental effect on critical infrastructure or critical
services, so limited recovery efforts are required. As the segment has been performing the
other functions, it has been engaged in reflection and process improvement. Individual
companies also communicate these lessons and measures throughout the industry and to
customers, to assist in threat identification, protection, detection, and response going
forward.
VI. Conclusion & Recommendations
 Satellite industry members should review this report and use the analytical process
therein to adapt the NIST Framework approach to cybersecurity risk management to
their own operations and networks. Industry members are invited to use the risk
management matrix above as a starting point in adapting the NIST Framework, or to
develop their own matrix, using the analytical process described in this report as a
guide.
 Industry members should participate in multiple channels of information sharing. As
described in the illustrative use case, robust collaborative efforts already are underway,
both among industry, and between the public and private sectors. In addition to
sharing vulnerability and solution information, industry members should ensure that
they are communicating sufficiently internally and externally to deliver adequate
assurances regarding their cyber security risk management practices.
 Continued flexibility is essential for use of the NIST Framework given the diversity
within the satellite segment. As such, each satellite operator is best positioned to
understand and address its cybersecurity risks, and each should be afforded flexibility
to apply the framework to their network architecture.
116The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Industry members should ensure that the NIST Framework and the WG 4 report are
disseminated throughout their organizations, in particular to management and staff
with a security or IT function.
VII. Acknowledgments
The satellite segment acknowledges the substantial contributions of time and expertise from
each of the individuals and companies represented on the subgroup.
The Segment also acknowledges the significant assistance and input from the other Segment
and Feeder Subgroups within Working Group 4.
VIII. Appendix: Informative References
DoD 8581.01 — Information Assurance Policy for Space Systems Used by the Department of
Defense
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/858101p.pdf
NIST SP 800‐53 — Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800‐53r4.pdf
FIPS Publication 200 — Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and
Information Systems
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips200/FIPS‐200‐final‐march.pdf
NIST SP 800‐30 — Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800‐30‐rev1/sp800_30_r1.pdf
ISO/IEC 27001 — Information security management systems — Requirements
http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail?csnumber=54534
ISO/IEC 27002 — Code of practice for information security management
http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail?csnumber=54533
NIST SP 800‐37 — Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information
Systems
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800‐37‐rev1/sp800‐37‐rev1‐final.pdf
Department of the Navy Chief Information Office (DON CIO) Acquisition Information Assurance
Strategy
http://www.doncio.navy.mil/ContentView.aspx?id=4180
CSRIC 2A Cybersecurity Best Practices
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/docs/csric/WG2A‐Cyber‐Security‐Best‐Practices‐Final‐Report.pdf
117The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.4 WIRELESS SEGMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
118The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ....................................................................................... 120
II. Introduction .................................................................................................. 120
III. Wireless Segment Group Members .............................................................. 121
IV. Background ................................................................................................... 121
V. Objective, Scope and Methodology .............................................................. 121
VI. Results & Findings: Wireless Segment .......................................................... 124
A. Areas of Critical Focus or Assets ............................................................. 128
B. Critical Services ...................................................................................... 130
C. Alignment with NIST Cybersecurity Framework ..................................... 131
D. Risk Based Processes .............................................................................. 156
VII. Illustrative Generic Use Case ......................................................................... 159
VIII. Conclusions & Recommendations: Wireless Segment ................................ 164
IX. Acknowledgments ......................................................................................... 166
X. Appendix ....................................................................................................... 166
119The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
CSRIC WORKING GROUP 4
WIRELESS SEGMENT REPORT
I. Executive Summary
The Wireless Segment is a subgroup within the CSRIC Working Group 4 effort and focused
on wireless technology, networks and services as it relates to cybersecurity risk
management and critical infrastructure. The Wireless Segment is comprised of industry
experts in the fields of wireless and telecommunications.
In order to accomplish the foundational objectives laid out by the FCC, the wireless segment
sought to conform to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. While the NIST Framework may
be used beyond critical infrastructure, the analysis was primarily focused on critical
infrastructure as defined in the Cybersecurity Executive Order46 (i.e. both physical and
virtual).
The wireless segment conducted an assessment by developing a detailed representative
profile focused on wireless critical infrastructure based on the DHS NSRA Model and existing
threat information sharing models used within the Communications Sector. Nonetheless,
individual companies will have to go through these steps for themselves to develop their
own cyber risk management programs, applying the framework to their own circumstances.
II. Introduction
The Wireless Segment is a subgroup within the CSRIC Working Group 4 effort and is focused
on wireless technology, networks and services as it relates to cybersecurity risk
management and critical infrastructure.
The last set of comprehensive cybersecurity best practices was recommended by CSRIC III in
March 2011. The wireless segment within CSRIC IV Working Group 4 evaluated CSRIC’s most
critical existing cybersecurity best practices and existing present day standards and best
practices to determine how best to address alignment with the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework and account for changes in cybersecurity practice and the threat landscape.
The Working Group will harmonize these best practices with current and up to date
practices and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, version 1.0. The Framework defines a
taxonomy for managing cyber risk. The risk management process is defined in five
functions, identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover (as described in Section IV below).
The Framework represents a virtuous cycle of continuous improvement in cybersecurity.
Depending on the size, scope of critical assets and services and maturity of an organization,
46 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
120The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
the Framework may be adapted to meet organizational requirements.
III. Wireless Segment Group Members
Martin Dolly AT&T
Kathy Whitbeck Cellcom/Nsight
Joel Capps Ericsson
Daniel Devasirvatham Idaho National Labs (inl.gov)
Jesse Ward NTCA
Karl Schimmeck SIFMA (Securities Industry and Financial Markets Ass.
Chuck Brownawell Sprint
Shellie Blakeney T‐Mobile
Harold Salters T‐Mobile
Danna Velsecchi Verizon
IV. Background
Wireless networks consist of physical and logical entities that provide support for mobile
network features and telecommunication services. The support provided includes
functionality, for management of mobile devices information, control of network features
and services, and the transfer (switching and transmission) mechanisms for signaling and for
user generated information. The core network consists of both the circuit switched core
network, which supports circuit switched services (e.g. voice), and the packet‐switched core
network, which supports IP‐based packet services (See Section VI).
As outlined below, the wireless segment identified critical infrastructure assets and services
pertinent to the core network. Consistent with the identified critical assets and services,
existing threat information sharing models are used based on the DHS NSRA model and
established practices47 from a risk assessment and threat environment perspective to
establish alignment priority with respect to the NIST Framework. The focus is on wireless
network critical infrastructure and services as defined herein, as compared to practices or
services that may exist to address consumer facing web services or portals.
V. Objective, Scope and Methodology
The foundational objectives of Working Group 4 include the following48:
 To conform the NIST Framework to the communications sector:‐ Identify core
mission(s), critical infrastructure and risks to the communications sector and organize
47 See Cellular Telephone Industries Association (‘CTIA’), Today’s Mobile Cybersecurity Information Sharing (2014),
available at http://www.ctia.org/docs/default‐source/default‐document‐
library/ctia_informationsharing.pdf?sfvrsn=2.
48 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
IV, Cybersecurity Risk Management Best Practices (WG4) (2014), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG‐4_Report_061814.pdf.
121The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
the NIST core framework based on the aspects most relevant to ensuring the reliability
and integrity of the core communications infrastructure.
 Maintain flexibility for individual companies. As part of this exercise, based on updated
threat information, and consistent with the NIST Framework, the conformed
communications sector framework will allow individual companies flexibility to self‐
determine how to apply the framework to their business based upon their individual risk
profile, risk tolerance, and critical infrastructure ownership.
 Develop new streamlined practices that align with the Framework’s organization and
common risk management approaches. Use existing CSRIC Best Practices and other
resources to inform and organize the Framework with the goal of providing companies
with a “guide” of communication segment specific practices that companies may elect
to implement to mitigate cyber risk.
 Develop use cases/examples of how the framework is being used within the sector.
Develop an appendix with illustrative examples or use cases about how the framework
is being used or incorporated into risk management processes of communications
companies. Descriptions will be anonymized and provide examples that could be
considered by all sectors regarding how aspects of the framework could be voluntarily
used.
 Provide guidance to incorporate the framework into existing company risk management
processes. Determine high level processes that companies could perform, to the extent
they use the framework, to incorporate it into their existing risk management program,
or build a cyber‐risk management program where none exists today.
The NIST Framework itself suggests seven steps to using the framework and affords firms
the flexibility to apply those steps unique to their business situation. With respect to the
wireless segment, those steps include49:
 Step 1: Prioritize and Scope. The organization identifies its business/mission objectives
and high‐level organizational priorities. With this information, the organization makes
strategic decisions regarding cybersecurity implementations and determines the scope
of systems and assets that support the selected business line or process. The Framework
can be adapted to support the different business lines or processes within an
organization, which may have different business needs and associated risk tolerance.
 Step 2: Orient. Once the scope of the cybersecurity program has been determined for
the business line or process, the organization identifies related systems and assets,
49 See National Institute for Standards and Technology, Framework for Improving Cybersecurity (2014), available at
http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity‐framework‐021214.pdf [hereinafter NIST CSF].
122The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
regulatory requirements, and overall risk approach. The organization then identifies
threats to, and vulnerabilities of, those systems and assets.
 Step 3: Create a Current Profile. The organization develops a Current Profile by
indicating which Category and Subcategory outcomes from the Framework Core are
currently being achieved.
 Step 4: Conduct a Risk Assessment. This assessment could be guided by the
organization’s overall risk management process or previous risk assessment activities.
The organization analyzes the operational environment in order to discern the likelihood
of a cybersecurity event and the impact that the event could have on the organization. It
is important that organizations seek to incorporate emerging risks and threat and
vulnerability data to facilitate a robust understanding of the likelihood and impact of
cybersecurity events.
 Step 5: Create a Target Profile. The organization creates a Target Profile that focuses on
the assessment of the Framework Categories and Subcategories describing the
organization’s desired cybersecurity outcomes. Organizations also may develop their
own additional Categories and Subcategories to account for unique organizational risks.
The organization may also consider influences and requirements of external
stakeholders such as sector entities, customers, and business partners when creating a
Target Profile.
 Step 6: Determine, Analyze, and Prioritize Gaps. The organization compares the
Current Profile and the Target Profile to determine gaps. Next it creates a prioritized
action plan to address those gaps that draws upon mission drivers, a cost/benefit
analysis, and understanding of risk to achieve the outcomes in the Target Profile. The
organization then determines resources necessary to address the gaps. Using Profiles in
this manner enables the organization to make informed decisions about cybersecurity
activities, supports risk management, and enables the organization to perform cost‐
effective, targeted improvements.
 Step 7: Implement Action Plan. The organization determines which actions to take in
regards to the gaps, if any, identified in the previous step. It then monitors its current
cybersecurity practices against the Target Profile. For further guidance, the Framework
identifies example Informative References regarding the Categories and Subcategories,
but organizations should determine which standards, guidelines, and practices,
including those that are sector specific, work best for their needs.
In order to accomplish the foundational objectives laid out by the FCC, the wireless segment
developed a sample “voluntary” profile to aid companies in the application of the
framework to their business. Given that the NIST Framework, while it may be used beyond
critical infrastructure, was primarily focused on critical infrastructure, the wireless sub‐
group started its assessment by developing a detailed representative profile focused on
123The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
wireless critical infrastructure. The purpose of this document is to provide
recommendations regarding how to best apply the framework. Individual companies will
have to go through these steps for themselves to develop their own cyber risk management
programs, applying the framework to their own circumstances.
In order to prioritize the NIST Framework best practices, the wireless segment collaborated
with other segment teams (e.g. wireline) to review and provide input on a standard
worksheet that considered the best practices according to a variety of factors. These
factors included considering whether each functional area, category and sub‐category were
in or out of scope, how they may be applied, their criticality to protecting against cyber
threats, and difficulty to implement. The working group also considered a variety of factors
in making these determinations including several barriers to entry including technological
barriers, scale barriers, consumer/market barriers, operational barriers, and legal/policy
barriers. Finally, as part of the criticality assessment, the wireline segment considered the
various threats that were outlined by the Threats Feeder Group. This analysis enabled the
team to categorize the various functional areas, categories and sub‐categories into three
buckets of practices: highest priority, mid‐tier and tertiary priority (as outlined in Section VI
below).
VI. Results & Findings: Wireless Segment
In order to create a sample profile, the wireless segment first reviewed the NIST Framework
in the context of critical infrastructure. The framework could also be viewed for other
factors beyond critical infrastructure consistent with each individual sector or company’s
priorities and core mission applying the seven steps outlined by NIST as discussed above.
In developing a representative profile for critical infrastructure the segment considered
critical infrastructure consistent with the definition discussed in President Obama’s
Executive Order on “Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity” which states that
critical infrastructure includes those “systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so
vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets
would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public
health or safety, or any combination of those matters.”50
Further, in 2012 the Communications Sector, in partnership with DHS, completed the 2012
Risk Assessment for Communications (referred to going forward as the National Sector Risk
Assessment or NSRA), updating its 2008 report ,which assessed physical and cyber threats
to the communications infrastructure. The risk assessment was intended to further the
goals of the Communications Sector Specific Plan, also developed jointly with DHS in 2010,
to identify and protect national critical network components, ensure overall network
reliability, maintain “always‐on” service for critical customers and quickly restore critical
communications functions and services following a disruption. The wireless segment
50 See EO 13636.
124The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
agreed that the scope of the efforts in Working Group 4 should build upon the work already
completed in the 2012 risk assessment.
The 2012 risk assessment proposes an architectural model that effectively divides the
communications network infrastructure into three components between (1) services and
applications, (2) the core network and (3) access networks.
The 2012 NSRA assessed the risk to the communications infrastructure from both physical
and cyber‐attacks. Specifically, the Communications Sector determined the risks from
single cyber incidents could result in the loss of network confidentiality, integrity, or
availability. However, the conclusion of the 2102 NSRA was that these impacts were largely
limited to a small portion of the network infrastructure. Based upon this analysis, the
sector determined that while the sector’s “wireless access segments are vulnerable to single
incidents; most risks would be limited to a local or regional area and would not result in
national communications disruptions and/or outages”. The sector identified some
exceptions, including one specific to the “core network that could result in national
communications disruptions and/or outages: malicious actors committing resource
exhaustion against multiple core network components of a particular make/model”. In
addition there may be other critical infrastructure sectors that may use wireless at the
regional level e.g. Energy Sector, and cross sector efforts work to evaluate impacts where
possible.
The Communications NSRA architecture model (see Figure below) identifies national level
communications architecture elements that are at elevated risk and serves as a baseline to
prioritize the communications infrastructure.
125The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Figure 2‐2 from the 2012 risk assessment illustrates the NSRA architectural model:
126The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Figure 2‐9 illustrates the NSRA Model that the Wireless Segment Specific Model is based on:
127The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Based on the NSRA Wireless Communications Model and the definition of Critical
Infrastructure contained in Executive Order 1363651 the following elements and
services are considered critical for purposes of the scope of this Segment report. The
elements shown below are functional descriptions that correspond to the elements
shown in the model (e.g. Location Registers correspond to Home Location Register and
Visitor Locations Register) for purposes of being technology neutral and to focus on the
critical function/asset or service.
The focus of this report is based on the NSRA Model for the critical assets and services
identified in below as it relates to the NIST CSF. However, it is important to note that the
CSF can readily be applied beyond what is identified below and provides the flexibility
for each organization to determine their needs as identified by a risk based
cybersecurity assessment.
A. Areas of Critical Focus or Assets
As outlined below the wireless segment identified critical infrastructure assets and
services. Consistent with the identified assets and services, existing threat information
sharing models are used to coordinate among sector participants based on the DHS
NSRA model and established practices52 from an overall risk assessment and threat
environment that is dynamic and constantly changing. The information sharing practices
address wireless network critical infrastructure and services as defined herein, as
compared to practices or services that may exist to address consumer facing web
services or portals.
1) Location Registers
Location Registers are used to provide mobility functions within the mobile network
based on location information associated with the mobile device. Typical Location
Registers are described in the 3GPP Standards53 and others54 as the Home Location
Register (HLR) and Visitor Location Register (VLR). The Home Location Register (HLR)
is the main database of permanent subscriber information for a mobile network.
Maintained by the subscriber's home carrier, the HLR contains pertinent user
information, account status, and preferences. The HLR interacts with the other
elements in the mobile core network for call control and processing. Another
example Location Registers is the Visiting Location Register (VLR), which maintains
temporary user information (such as current location) to manage requests from
devices that are out of the area covered by the home system.
51 See EO 13636.
52 See Cellular Telephone Industries Association (‘CTIA’), Today’s Mobile Cybersecurity Information Sharing (2014),
available at http://www.ctia.org/docs/default‐source/default‐document‐
library/ctia_informationsharing.pdf?sfvrsn=2.
53 See Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), http://www.3gpp.org (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
54 See Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, http://www.atis.org (last visited Mar. 13, 2015); See 3rd
Generation Partnership Project 2, http://www.3gpp2.org (last visited Mar. 13, 2015); See Telecommunications
Industry Association, http://www.tiaonline.org (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
128The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
2) Identity and Authentication Registers
Identity and device authentication are basic and fundamental functions to the
proper and reliable operation of the mobile network. The device identity and
authorization to access mobile network services are critical to ensure proper
functioning of mobile services. Examples of registers that correspond to these
critical elements may be found in 3GPP and other Standards, and are often referred
as the HSS (Home Subscriber Server). The HSS is a central database that contains
user‐related and subscription‐related information. The functions of the HSS include
functionalities such as mobility management, call and session establishment
support, authentication and access authorization. Other examples of Identity
Registers include the Authentication Center (AuC) and may be found in 3GPP and
other mobility Standards.
3) Mobile Switching & Packet Core Entities
The Mobile Switching and Packet Core Entities are elements of the mobile network
that carry out call switching functions for mobile devices roaming on the network of
base stations. It allows mobile devices to communicate with each other and
telephones in the wider public switched telephone network (PSTN) or across the
Internet to Websites, Applications and other resources available through the
Internet. The architecture contains specific mobile capabilities and functions which
are needed because mobile devices are not fixed in one location.
Originally the mobile core network consisted of the circuit‐switched core network,
used for traditional services such as voice calls, SMS, and circuit switched data calls.
The packet core functions extended the architecture to provide packet‐switched
data services and Internet connectivity.
4) Mobility Management Core Entity
Mobility Management is one of the major functions that allow mobile devices to
work properly. The Mobility Management Core Entity is a key control‐node and is
involved in such functions as the bearer activation/deactivation process and is also
responsible for choosing how devices attach to the mobile network and the control
of temporary identities. The functionality is detailed in 3GPP and other mobile
Standards.
5) Core Signaling Entities (Common with Wireline and possibly other segments)
The Core Signaling Entities correspond to those elements that provide signaling
control and services functions that provides for coordination, reliability and
authentication to the core functions such as the Location Registers, Identity and
Authentication Registers, Mobile Switching and Mobility Management Core entities.
Signaling System No. 7 (SS7), the ISDN User Part (ISUP), the GSM‐Mobile Application
Part (GSM‐MAP), and ANSI‐41 are examples of protocols that may be used by Core
Signaling entities.
129The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
6) Core Policy Entities (Common with Wireline and possibly other segments)
The Core Policy Entities correspond to those elements that provide policy control
functions that provides for coordination, reliability and authentication to other
mobile network core functions such as the Mobility Management Core entities.
RADIUS and DIAMETER55 are examples of protocols that may be used by Core Policy
entities.
B. Critical Services
1) Network Availability
With more mobile devices available than the number of people in the United States,
mobile network availability to end‐users is of utmost importance and has become
critical to ensuring communications, particularly during natural disasters and other
emergencies. The critical functions of the mobile core network as identified by the
NSRA, place network availability and reliability as the highest priority and support
the critical services outlined below.
2) Wireless Emergency Alerts56 (WEA) ‐ (National mobile messaging alert capability that
appears on a mobile device similar to a text message, but there are two
fundamental differences:
 WEA use a different kind of technology to ensure these alert messages are
delivered immediately and are not subject to potential congestion (or delays) on
wireless networks.
 WEA use a point‐to‐multipoint system, which means alert messages will be sent
to mobile users within a targeted area, unlike text messages which are not
location aware. For example, if a Washington, D.C. mobile user has a WEA‐
capable device, but happened to be in an area in southern California when an
earthquake occurred, the device would receive an “Imminent Threat Alert.”
55 See Wikipedia, Diameter (protocol), http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diameter_%28protocol%29 (last visited Mar.
13, 2015); See Wikipedia, RADIUS, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RADIUS (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
56 See Cellular Telephone Industries Association, Wireless Emergency Alerts, http://www.ctia.org/your‐wireless‐
life/consumer‐tips/wireless‐emergency‐alerts (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
130The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
3) Enhanced 911, E‐911 or E911, and NG911
The mobile network is part of a system that links emergency callers with the
appropriate public resources commonly referred to as a Public Safety Answering
Point (PSAP). A mobile device, regardless of whether or not it is provisioned on a
network, has the ability to support a call when the user calls the digits “911”. In
addition to voice communications, text communications are also being rolled out in
States57. Next Generation 911 (NG911) enables the public to obtain emergency
assistance by means of advanced communications technologies beyond traditional
voice‐centric devices, or send additional information of an incident including
pictures and videos.
4) Wireless Priority Services (WPS)
WPS is a voluntary DHS program that supports national leadership; Federal, State,
local, tribal and territorial governments; and other authorized national security and
emergency preparedness users. It is intended to be used in an emergency or crisis
situation when the wireless network may be congested and the probability of
completing a normal call may be reduced. It also requires the mobile device to
access the wireless channel before the call is prioritized.
a. Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS)
Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS) supports national
leadership; Federal, State, local, tribal and territorial governments; and other
authorized national security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) users. It is
intended to be used in an emergency or crisis situation when the landline
network is congested and the probability of completing a normal call is reduced.
C. Alignment with NIST Cybersecurity Framework
This document will assist participants in the wireless segment to align with the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework by tailoring the framework’s categories and subcategories to
best serve the segment’s unique cybersecurity challenges and provide use cases, which
will highlight how to apply a risk evaluation and mitigation process.
1) Functions
Based on the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and the Five Functions specified in the
document, the wireless segment deemed the following to be relevant to the critical
elements and services identified above.
57 See Federal Communications Commission, Best Practices for Implementing Text‐to‐911 (2014), available at
www.fcc.gov/encyclopedia/best‐practices‐implementing‐text‐911.
131The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
i. Identify
The Identify Function seeks to identify the business context and resources
necessary to support functions which are critical, enabling organizations to
prioritize and focus efforts.
The following are the key components of the Identify Function:
a. Asset Management (ID.AM): The data, personnel, devices, systems, and
facilities that enable the organization to achieve business purposes are
identified and managed consistent with their relative importance to
business objectives and the organization’s risk strategy.
b. Business Environment (ID.BE): The organization’s mission, objectives,
stakeholders, and activities are understood and prioritized; this
information is used to inform cybersecurity roles, responsibilities, and
risk management decisions.
c. Governance (ID.GV): The policies, procedures, and processes to manage
and monitor the organization’s regulatory, legal, risk, environmental,
and operational requirements are understood and inform the
management of cybersecurity risk.
d. Risk Assessment (ID.RA): The organization understands the
cybersecurity risk to organizational operations (including mission,
functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, and individuals.
e. Risk Management Strategy (ID.RM): The organization’s priorities,
constraints, risk tolerances, and assumptions are established and used to
support operational risk decisions.
ii. Protect
The Protect Function is the first line of defense, implemented through a range of
security controls and procedures that implement policies resulting from the
Identify Function.
The following are the key components of the Protect Function:
a. Access Control (PR.AC): Access to assets and associated facilities is
limited to authorized users, processes, or devices, and to authorized
activities and transactions.
b. Awareness and Training (PR.AT): The organization’s personnel and
partners are provided cybersecurity awareness education and are
adequately trained to perform their information security‐related duties
and responsibilities consistent with related policies, procedures, and
agreements.
c. Data Security (PR.DS): Information and records (data) are managed
consistent with the organization’s risk strategy to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.
d. Information Protection Processes and Procedures (PR.IP): Security
policies (that address purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities,
132The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
management commitment, and coordination among organizational
entities), processes, and procedures are maintained and used to manage
protection of information systems and assets.
e. Maintenance (PR.MA): Maintenance and repairs of industrial control
and information system components is performed consistent with
policies and procedures.
f. Protective Technology (PR.PT): Technical security solutions are managed
to ensure the security and resilience of systems and assets, consistent
with related policies, procedures, and agreements.
iii. Detect
The expectation is that security policies may have gaps or that security controls
may be imperfect, resulting in occasional security incidents. These incidents
must be detected to be effectively managed, and the Detect Function seeks to
accomplish that.
The following are the key components of Detect Function:
a. Anomalies and Events (DE.AE): Anomalous activity is detected in a
timely manner and the potential impact of events is understood.
b. Security Continuous Monitoring (DE.CM): The information system and
assets are monitored at discrete intervals to identify cybersecurity
events and verify the effectiveness of protective measures.
c. Detection Processes (DE.DP): Detection processes and procedures are
maintained and tested to ensure timely and adequate awareness of
anomalous events.
iv. Respond
Once a security incident has been detected, a response is required to remediate
the incident, which is the goal of the Respond Function.
The following are the key components of Respond Function:
a. Communications (RS.CO): Response activities are coordinated with
internal and external stakeholders, as appropriate, to include external
support from law enforcement agencies.
b. Analysis (RS.AN): Analysis is conducted to ensure adequate response
and support recovery activities.
c. Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are performed to prevent expansion of an
event, mitigate its effects, and eradicate the incident.
d. Improvements (RS.IM): Organizational response activities are improved
by incorporating lessons learned from current and previous
detection/response activities.
133The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
v. Recover
While the respond phase seeks to address an individual security incident, the
recovery seeks to update security policies and controls within the Protect
Function to ensure future attacks of the same type are not successful.
The following are the key components of Recovery Function:
a. Recovery Planning (RC.RP): Recovery processes and procedures are
executed and maintained to ensure timely restoration of systems or
assets affected by cybersecurity events.
b. Improvements (RC.IM): Recovery planning and processes are improved
by incorporating lessons learned into future activities.
c. Communications (RC.CO): Restoration activities are coordinated with
internal and external parties, such as coordinating centers, Internet
Service Providers, owners of attacking systems, victims, other CSIRTs58,
and vendors.
2) Relevant Categories
The categories and subcategories below, taken from the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework (CSF), Version 1.0 represent different levels of risk management
activities along a continuum from large to medium and small sized organizations. As
outlined in the CSF an organization can use the categories and subcategories as a
key part of a systematic process for identifying, assessing, and managing
cybersecurity risk. The categories and subcategories are tools that an organization
can use to determine activities that are most important to critical assets and
services. For purposes of this document the tables below relate to the critical assets
and services identified above.
This document purposely does not define Large, Medium and Small sized
organizations; however, with respect to possible examples of the large
organizational case the following may be considered:
A large sized organization may be an owner/operator of most, if not all of the critical
assets and services outlined above and may have a national footprint in terms or
geographic coverage, subscriber base and operations overall.
The purpose of using organization size below is to help guide and prioritize
categories and subcategories given the flexibility in the CSF to scale. Individual
owner/operators of the critical assets and services identified above may determine,
on a case by case basis which categories and subcategories are in‐scope and most
relevant to their specific situation and risk management process.
NOTE: Analysis of Medium and Small sized organizations has been assigned to the
SMB Sub‐group within Working Group 4 and is intentionally not reflected below.
58 See CSIRT, https://www.csirt.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
134The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
i. Identify Function
Function & Organization Size & Scope Relevant Categories
Categories
Identify Large
Asset Management (ID.AM): The data, personnel,
Out‐of‐Scope (see below): devices, systems, and facilities that enable the
ID.AM‐3 organization to achieve business purposes are
ID.AM‐6 identified and managed consistent with their
relative importance to business objectives and the
organization’s risk strategy.
Large Business Environment (ID.BE): The organization’s
mission, objectives, stakeholders, and activities are
Out‐of‐Scope (see below): understood and prioritized; this information is
ID.BE‐1 used to inform cybersecurity roles, responsibilities,
ID.BE‐3 and risk management decisions.
Large Governance (ID.GV): The policies, procedures, and
processes to manage and monitor the
organization’s regulatory, legal, risk,
environmental, and operational requirements are
understood and inform the management of
cybersecurity risk.
Large Risk Assessment (ID.RA): The organization
understands the cybersecurity risk to
Out‐of‐Scope (see below): organizational operations (including mission,
ID.RA‐4 functions, image, or reputation), organizational
assets, and individuals.
Large Risk Management Strategy (ID.RM): The
organization’s priorities, constraints, risk
tolerances, and assumptions are established and
used to support operational risk decisions.
ii. Protect Function
Function & Categories Organization Size & Scope Relevant Categories
Protect Function Large Access Control (PR.AC): Access to assets and
associated facilities is limited to authorized
users, processes, or devices, and to authorized
activities and transactions.
Large Awareness and Training (PR.AT): The
organization’s personnel and partners are
provided cybersecurity awareness education
and are adequately trained to perform their
information security‐related duties and
responsibilities consistent with related policies,
135The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
procedures, and agreements.
Large Data Security (PR.DS): Information and records
(data) are managed consistent with the
organization’s risk strategy to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information.
Large Information Protection Processes and
Procedures (PR.IP): Security policies (that
address purpose, scope, roles, responsibilities,
management commitment, and coordination
Out‐of‐Scope (See
among organizational entities), processes, and
below):
procedures are maintained and used to manage
protection of information systems and assets.
PR.IP‐2
PR.IP‐11
Large Maintenance (PR.MA): Maintenance and
repairs of industrial control and information
system components is performed consistent
with policies and procedures.
Large Protective Technology (PR.PT): Technical
security solutions are managed to ensure the
security and resilience of systems and assets,
consistent with related policies, procedures, and
agreements.
iii. Detect Function
Function & categories Organization Size & Scope Relevant Categories
Detect Function Large Anomalies and Events (DE.AE): Anomalous
activity is detected in a timely manner and the
potential impact of events is understood.
Large Security Continuous Monitoring (DE.CM):
The information system and assets are
monitored at discrete intervals to identify
cybersecurity events and verify the
effectiveness of protective measures.
136The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Large Detection Processes (DE.DP): Detection
processes and procedures are maintained and
Out‐of‐Scope (See below): tested to ensure timely and adequate
awareness of anomalous events.
DE.DP‐4
iv. Respond Function
Function & Categories Organization Size & Scope Relevant Categories
Respond Function Large, Medium, Small Communications (RS.RP): Response
process and procedures are
executed and maintained, to ensure
timely response to detected
cybersecurity events.
Large Communications (RS.CO): Response
activities are coordinated with
Out‐of‐Scope (See below): internal and external stakeholders,
as appropriate, to include external
RS.CO‐4
support from law enforcement
agencies.
Large Analysis (RS.AN): Analysis is
conducted to ensure adequate
response and support recovery
activities.
Large Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are
performed to prevent expansion of
an event, mitigate its effects, and
eradicate the incident.
Large Improvements (RS.IM):
Organizational response activities
are improved by incorporating
lessons learned from current and
previous detection/response
activities.
137The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
v. Recover Function
Function & Categories Organization Size & Relevant Categories
Scope
Recover Function Large Recovery Planning (RC.RP): Recovery processes
and procedures are executed and maintained
to ensure timely restoration of systems or
assets affected by cybersecurity events.
Large Improvements (RC.IM): Recovery planning and
processes are improved by incorporating
lessons learned into future activities.
Large Communications (RC.CO): Restoration activities
are coordinated with internal and external
Out‐of‐Scope (see parties, such as coordinating centers, Internet
below): Service Providers, owners of attacking systems,
victims, other CSIRTs, and vendors.
RC.CO‐1
RC.CO‐2
RC.CO‐3
138The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Note: In the Scoping Analysis that follows below, both Wireline and Wireless Sub‐Groups are referenced because the analysis was
conducted jointly by the two Sub‐Groups and is the same for both. There is no intention to address the Wireline Segment in this
report. The material contained in the report herein is solely focused on the Wireless Segment analysis.
SCOPING ANALYSIS
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
Wireless & Wireline Sub‐Groups Wireless & Wireline Sub‐Groups
Is the function, category, sub‐category in scope Explanation of how the function, category,
as a best practice for the critical infrastructure subcategory applies to the critical
"systems and assets" determined by the sub‐ infrastructure as defined by the sub‐group
group (aligned wireless & wireline)? (In‐scope or (wireline, wireless).
Out‐of‐Scope).
Sub‐Category
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and
systems within the organization are
inventoried In Scope Applies to core infrastructure elements
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and
applications within the organization
are inventoried In Scope
139The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
ID.AM‐3: Organizational Business management process not associated
communication and data flows are with ensuring the operability of critical
mapped Out of Scope infrastructure
Only related to issues related to or impacting
ID.AM‐4: External information the physical devices or systems associated with
systems are catalogued In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware,
devices, data and software) are
prioritized based on their
classification, criticality, and business
value In Scope
ID.AM‐6: Cybersecurity roles and
responsibilities for the entire
workforce and third‐party Only relates to a company's overall business
stakeholders (e.g., suppliers, risk management program not impacting the
customers, partners) are established Out of Scope operability of critical infrastructure
ID.BE‐1: Organization's role in the
supply chain is identified and Related to Enterprise IT or overall corporate
communicated Out of Scope function
ID.BE‐2: Organization's place in
critical infrastructure and its industry
sector is identified and Helps organizations understand their role in
communicated In Scope the industry and impact on cybersecurity.
ID.BE‐3: Priorities for organizational
mission, objectives and actives are Related to Enterprise IT or overall corporate
established and communicated Out of Scope function
140The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical
functions for delivery of critical
services are established In Scope See ID‐BE2
ID.BE‐5: Resilience requirements to
support delivery of critical services
are established In Scope
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information Related to security around critical components
security policy is established In Scope and infrastructure
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles &
responsibilities are coordinated and
aligned with internal roles and Smaller organizations may not have multiple
external partners In Scope groups
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory
requirements regarding
cybersecurity, including privacy and Only related to issues related to or impacting
civil liberties obligations, are the physical devices or systems associated with
understood and managed In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk Only related to issues related to or impacting
management processes address the physical devices or systems associated with
cybersecurity risks In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
Only related to issues related to or impacting
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are Rephrase ‐ Asset vulnerabilities and threats are the physical devices or systems associated with
identified and documented identified the critical infrastructure inventoried above
141The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
ID.RA‐2: Threat and vulnerability
information is received from Only related to issues related to or impacting
information sharing forums and the physical devices or systems associated with
sources In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and Only related to issues related to or impacting
external, are identified and Rephrase ‐ Asset vulnerabilities and threats are the physical devices or systems associated with
documented documented the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.RA‐4: Potential business impacts Related to business risk not the operability of
and likelihoods are identified Out of Scope critical infrastructure
ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, Only related to issues related to or impacting
likelihoods, and impacts are used to the physical devices or systems associated with
determine risk In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
Only related to issues related to or impacting
ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are the physical devices or systems associated with
identified and prioritized In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.RM‐1: Risk management
processes are established, managed, Only related to issues related to or impacting
and agreed to by organizational the physical devices or systems associated with
stakeholders In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
ID.RM‐2: Organizational risk Only related to issues related to or impacting
tolerance is determined and clearly In Scope ‐ only for personnel that work with the physical devices or systems associated with
expressed critical infrastructure assets…. the critical infrastructure inventoried above
142The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
ID.RM‐3: The organization's
determination of risk tolerance is
informed by its role in critical Only related to issues related to or impacting
infrastructure and sector specific risk the physical devices or systems associated with
analysis In Scope ‐ same as above the critical infrastructure inventoried above
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials Only related to issues related to or impacting
are managed for authorized devices the physical devices or systems associated with
and users In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
Only related to issues related to or impacting
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is the physical devices or systems associated with
managed and protected In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
Only related to issues related to or impacting
the physical devices or systems associated with
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are
managed, incorporating the Only related to issues related to or impacting
principles of least privilege and the physical devices or systems associated with
separation of duties In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is Only related to issues related to or impacting
protected, incorporating network the physical devices or systems associated with
segregation where appropriate In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
Only related to issues related to or impacting
PR.AT‐1: All users are informed and the physical devices or systems associated with
trained In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
143The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
Only related to issues related to or impacting
PR.AT‐2: Privileged users understand the physical devices or systems associated with
roles & responsibilities In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
PR.AT‐3: Third‐party stakeholders Only related to issues related to or impacting
(e.g., suppliers customers, partners) the physical devices or systems associated with
understand roles & responsibilities In Scope the critical infrastructure inventoried above
PR.AT‐4: Senior executives Only senior executives that are responsible for
understand roles & responsibilities overseeing critical infrastructure
PR.AT‐5: Physical and information
security personnel understand roles Only information security personnel that are
and responsibility responsible for overseeing critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐3: Assets are formally
managed throughout removal,
transfers and disposition In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to
ensure availability is maintained In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐5: Protections against data
leaks are implemented In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
144The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
PR.DS‐6: Integrity checking
mechanisms are used to verify
software, firmware, and information
integrity In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.DS‐7: The development and
testing environment(s) are separate
from the production environment In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐1: A baseline configuration of
information technology/industrial
control systems is created and
maintained In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐2: A System Development Life Business management process not associated
Cycle to manage systems is with ensuring the operability of critical
implemented Out of Scope infrastructure
PR.IP‐3: Configuration change
control processes are in place In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐4: Backups of information are
conducted, maintained and tested
periodically In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐5: Policy and regulations
regarding the physical operating
environment for organizational
assets are met In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
145The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
PR.IP‐6: Data is destroyed according
to policy In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐7: Protection processes are
continuously improved In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of protection
technologies is shared with
appropriate parties In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident
Response and Business Continuity)
and recovery plans (Incident
Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are
in place and managed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐10: Response and recovery
plans are tested In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.IP‐11: Cybersecurity is included in Business management process not associated
human resources practices (e.g., with ensuring the operability of critical
deprovisioning, personnel screening) Out of Scope infrastructure
PR.IP‐12: A vulnerability
management plan is developed and
implemented In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.MA‐1: Maintenance and repair of
organizational assets is performed
and logged in a timely manner, with
approved and controlled tools In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
146The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of
organizational assets is performed in
a manner that prevents
unauthorized access In Scope Duplicative w/ AC‐ Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.PT‐1: Audit/log records are
determined, documented,
implemented, and reviewed in
accordance with policy In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.PT‐2: Removable media is
protected and its use restricted
according to policy In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and
assets is controlled, incorporating
the principle of least functionality In Scope Duplicative w/ AC‐4 Only as related to critical infrastructure
PR.PT‐4: Communications and
control networks are protected In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.AE‐1: A baseline of network
operations and expected data flows
for users and systems is established
and managed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.AE‐2: Detected events are
analyzed to understand attack
targets and methods In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
147The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
DE.AE‐3: Event data are aggregated
and correlated from multiple sources
and sensors In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.AE‐4: Impact of events is
determined In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.AE‐5: Incident alert thresholds
are established In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored
to detect potential cybersecurity
events In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment
is monitored to detect potential
cybersecurity events In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is
monitored to detect potential
cybersecurity threats In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
In Scope out of scope in transport ‐ malicious
code targeting comms. infrastructure is in scope.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected Related back to PR‐DR 6 Only as related to critical infrastructure
148The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code
is detected In Scope Client Server vs. critical infra Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.CM‐6: External service provider
activity is monitored to detect I.e. switch manufacturer’s remote diagnostic
potential cybersecurity events In Scope and or maintenance work.
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring for
unauthorized personnel,
connections, devices, and software is
performed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.CM‐8: Vulnerability scans are
performed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.DP‐1: Roles and responsibilities
for detection are well defined to
ensure accountability In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.DP‐2: Detection activities comply
with applicable requirements In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
DE.DP‐3: Detection processes are
tested In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
149The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
DE.DP‐4: Event detection Business management process not associated
information is communicated to with ensuring the operability of critical
appropriate parties Out of Scope infrastructure
DE.DP‐6: Detection processes are
continuously improved In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed
during or after an event In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their roles
and order of operations when a
response is needed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.CO‐2: Events are reported
consistent with established criteria In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.CO‐3: Information is shared
consistent with response plans In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.CO‐4: Coordination with Business management process not associated
stakeholders occurs consistent with with ensuring the operability of critical
response plans Out of Scope infrastructure
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary information
sharing occurs with external
stakeholders to achieve broader
cybersecurity situational awareness In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
150The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
RS.AN‐1: Notifications from
detection systems are investigated In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.AN‐2: The impact of the incident
is understood In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.AN‐3: Forensics are performed In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.AN‐4: Incidents are categorized
consistent with plans In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.MN‐3: Newly identified
vulnerabilities are mitigated or
documented as accepted risks In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RS.IM‐1: Response plans incorporate Only necessary if response plan failed to
lessons learned In Scope contain or mitigate.
RS.IM‐2: Response strategies are Only necessary if response plan failed to
updated In Scope contain or mitigate.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed
during or after an event In Scope Only as related to critical infrastructure
RC.RP‐2: Recovery strategies are Only necessary if response plan failed to
updated In Scope contain or mitigate.
151The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In Scope/Out of Scope Application
Business management process not associated
with ensuring the operability of critical
RC.CO‐1: Public related are managed Out of Scope infrastructure
Business management process not associated
RC.CO‐2: Reputation after an event with ensuring the operability of critical
is repaired Out of Scope infrastructure
RC.CO‐3: Recovery activities are
communicated to internal Business management process not associated
stakeholders and executive and with ensuring the operability of critical
management teams Out of Scope infrastructure
152The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Based on the Scoping Analysis shown above a further analysis of prioritizing the various in‐
scope subcategories was conducted. The analysis considered prioritization based on a scheme
of Top Priority, Mid‐Tier Priority and Tertiary Priority. Organizations may consider different
schemes, but the analysis below illustrates an example of how to do so.
Subcategory Priority Analysis
Top Priority Mid‐Tier Priority Tertiary Priority
Subcategories Subcategories Subcategories
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and ID.AM‐4: External information ID.RA‐2: Threat and vulnerability
systems within the organization systems are catalogued information is received from
are inventoried information sharing forums and
sources
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and ID.BE‐2: Organization's place in ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and
applications within the critical infrastructure and its external, are identified and
organization are inventoried industry sector is identified and documented
communicated
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical ID.RM‐2: Organizational risk tolerance
hardware, devices, data and functions for delivery of critical is determined and clearly expressed
software) are prioritized based on services are established
their classification, criticality, and
business value
ID.GV‐1: Organizational ID.BE‐5: Resilience requirements ID.RM‐3: The organization's
information security policy is to support delivery of critical determination of risk tolerance is
established services are established informed by its role in critical
infrastructure and sector specific risk
analysis
ID.GV‐2: Information security ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk PR.AT‐1: All users are informed and
roles & responsibilities are management processes address trained
coordinated and aligned with cybersecurity risks
internal roles and external
partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, PR.IP‐1: A baseline configuration of
requirements regarding likelihoods, and impacts are used information technology/industrial
cybersecurity, including privacy to determine risk control systems is created and
and civil liberties obligations, are maintained
understood and managed
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are PR.IP‐5: Policy and regulations
identified and documented identified and prioritized regarding the physical operating
environment for organizational assets
are met
PR.AC‐1: Identities and ID.RM‐1: Risk management PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of protection
credentials are managed for processes are established, technologies is shared with
authorized devices and users managed, and agreed to by appropriate parties
organizational stakeholders
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets PR.AT‐2: Privileged users DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code
is managed and protected understand roles & responsibilities is detected
153The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Top Priority Mid‐Tier Priority Tertiary Priority
Subcategories Subcategories Subcategories
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is PR.AT‐3: Third‐party stakeholders DE.CM‐6: External service provider
managed (e.g., suppliers customers, activity is monitored to detect
partners) understand roles & potential cybersecurity events
responsibilities
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are PR.AT‐4: Senior executives DE.DP‐1: Roles and responsibilities for
managed, incorporating the understand roles & responsibilities detection are well defined to ensure
principles of least privilege and accountability
separation of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is PR.AT‐5: Physical and information DE.DP‐3: Detection processes are
protected, incorporating network security personnel understand tested
segregation where appropriate roles and responsibility
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected RS.AN‐3: Forensics are performed
ensure availability is maintained
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is RS.AN‐4: Incidents are categorized
Response and Business protected consistent with plans
Continuity) and recovery plans
(Incident Recovery and Disaster
Recovery) are in place and
managed
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance PR.DS‐3: Assets are formally RS.IM‐1: Response plans incorporate
of organizational assets is managed throughout removal, lessons learned
performed in a manner that transfers and disposition
prevents unauthorized access
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and PR.DS‐5: Protections against data RS.IM‐2: Response strategies are
assets is controlled, incorporating leaks are implemented updated
the principle of least functionality
PR.PT‐4: Communications and PR.DS‐6: Integrity checking RC.RP‐1: Recovery plans incorporate
control networks are protected mechanisms are used to verify lessons learned
software, firmware, and
information integrity
DE.CM‐1: The network is PR.DS‐7: The development and RC.RP‐2: Recovery strategies are
monitored to detect potential testing environment(s) are updated
cybersecurity events separate from the production
environment
DE.CM‐2: The physical PR.IP‐3: Configuration change
environment is monitored to control processes are in place
detect potential cybersecurity
events
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is PR.IP‐4: Backups of information
monitored to detect potential are conducted, maintained and
cybersecurity threats tested periodically
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is PR.IP‐6: Data is destroyed
detected according to policy
154The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Top Priority Mid‐Tier Priority Tertiary Priority
Subcategories Subcategories Subcategories
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is PR.IP‐7: Protection processes are
executed during or after an event continuously improved
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained PR.IP‐10: Response and recovery
plans are tested
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated PR.IP‐12: A vulnerability
management plan is developed
and implemented
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is PR.MA‐1: Maintenance and repair
executed during or after an event of organizational assets is
performed and logged in a timely
manner, with approved and
controlled tools
PR.PT‐1: Audit/log records are
determined, documented,
implemented, and reviewed in
accordance with policy
PR.PT‐2: Removable media is
protected and its use restricted
according to policy
DE.AE‐1: A baseline of network
operations and expected data
flows for users and systems is
established and managed
DE.AE‐2: Detected events are
analyzed to understand attack
targets and methods
DE.AE‐3: Event data are
aggregated and correlated from
multiple sources and sensors
DE.AE‐4: Impact of events is
determined
DE.AE‐5: Incident alert thresholds
are established
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring for
unauthorized personnel,
connections, devices, and
software is performed
DE.CM‐8: Vulnerability scans are
performed
DE.DP‐2: Detection activities
comply with applicable
requirements
DE.DP‐6: Detection processes are
continuously improved
155The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Top Priority Mid‐Tier Priority Tertiary Priority
Subcategories Subcategories Subcategories
RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their
roles and order of operations
when a response is needed
RS.CO‐2: Events are reported
consistent with established criteria
RS.CO‐3: Information is shared
consistent with response plans
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary information
sharing occurs with external
stakeholders to achieve broader
cybersecurity situational
awareness
RS.AN‐1: Notifications from
detection systems are investigated
RS.AN‐2: The impact of the
incident is understood
RS.MN‐3: Newly identified
vulnerabilities are mitigated or
documented as accepted risks
The methodology used to arrive at the priority categories shown above was based on the
determination of critical assets and services as described earlier in this section. From the
defined assets and services the NIST Framework categories and subcategories were individually
studied and assessed within the context of the risk based processes outlined below. The Risk
Based Processes provides guidance on how an organization may consider prioritization of the
subcategories to suit their situation and risk management needs.
D. Risk Based Processes
Historically, cybersecurity risk has been managed through compliance‐based
approaches. A security policy, whether developed internally or levied externally by a
regulatory entity, informs technical and non‐technical security controls that seek to
reduce the probability and impact of intrusions (see Figure 6‐1 below on left). In a
compliance‐based approach to cybersecurity, metrics focus on measuring the level of
policy compliance, rather than the inherent risk. Compliance is often measured as a
collection of binary outcomes, representing how many “check boxes” are “checked off”.
156The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Figure 6‐1. Compliance Approach Figure 6‐2. Risk‐based Approach
Risk‐based cybersecurity is a closed‐loop cycle or process (see Figure 6‐2 above on
right). Security policies define what is and is not acceptable in an enterprise. These
policies are enforced by both technical and non‐technical security controls. Risk
indicators are established. Based on the trends of these indicators, risk assessments
are undertaken that trade off the cost/risk of intrusions against the cost/complexity
of implementation and seek to modify security policies based on an informed risk
assessment. From here the virtuous cycle repeats. The NIST Framework identifies
the relevant Functions, Categories and Subcategories that may be used to
implement the closed‐loop cycle, and how an organization may improve over time
and repetition of the cycle leading to improvement and process integration.
157The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The level of risk management process integration within the NIST Framework is broken
down into four tiers, and mapped against the Functions.
 Partial: There are no formal procedures in place and risk is managed in an ad hoc
and reactive manner based on identified incidents.
 Risk Informed: Organizationally, cybersecurity risk is understood and security
controls are deployed based on risk‐informed, management‐approved processes
and procedures, but recovery and communications procedures are not well defined.
 Repeatable: A risk‐informed approach is repeatable within the organization ensuring
the ability to mitigate threats as they occur.
 Adaptive: Leading indicators are used to identify new types of threats and deploy
protections in anticipation of an incident.
The following risk‐based processes are described in the context of the critical assets and
services identified above and Figure 6‐2 above.
Commonly Used Processes:
1. Risk Assessment
2. Establish Cybersecurity Program
3. Review of Cybersecurity Practices
a. Standards
b. Procedures
c. Controls
4. Risk Governance and Audit
5. Awareness and training
6. Anomalous activity detection and assets monitoring
7. Response activities and information sharing methods and procedures
158The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VII. Illustrative Generic Use Case
Note: Use cases associated with small and medium sized organizations are assigned to the SMB
Subgroup within Working Group 4 and are not reflected in this document.
Large Organizational Use Case
Definitions and Assumptions:
As defined in Executive Order 13636 Critical Infrastructure means systems and assets,
whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of
such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic
security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters. The
definition is taken from section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c (e)).
For the use case below the assumption is for a large sized organization. This document
purposely does not define Large, Medium and Small sized organizations; however, with
respect to possible examples the following may be considered for a large sized organization.
Such an organization may be an owner/operator of most, if not all of the critical assets and
services outlined in Section VI above and may have a national footprint in terms or
geographic coverage, subscriber base and operations overall.
a. Critical Systems & Assets (See Section VI)
For this particular use case all of the assets from Section VI are assumed as part of the
overall network configurations. Specifically the following are included:
1. Location Registers,
2. Identity & Authentication Registers,
3. Mobile Switching & Packet Core Entities,
4. Mobility Management Core Entity,
5. Core Signaling Entities, and
6. Core Policy Entities.
b. Critical Services (Virtual Assets & Systems) (See Section VI)
For this particular use case all of the services from Section VI are assumed as part of the
overall network configurations. Specifically the following are included:
1. Network Availability
2. Wireless Emergency Alerts
3. Enhanced 911 & NG 911
4. Wireless Priority Services
5. GETS
159The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
c. Assumed Configuration
The assumed configuration is that shown below as outlined in the NSRA model from
Section VI. It is replicated below for convenience.
160The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
d. Scope
In the general case of a large organization, i.e. operator/owner of critical infrastructure,
national scope of all 50 States is assumed, as well as coverage of a significant portion of
the US population. National coverage of 50 States may be accomplished through
roaming partner capabilities in addition to those assets and services provided by the
owner/operator.
e. Threat Impacts
i. Systems & Assets – Disruption of network availability for wireless communications
nationally would have a debilitating impact on public confidence and well‐being,
security, national economic security, and public safety.
Part of network availability includes the capability for consumers to seamlessly move
and roam from place to place, city to city, and region to region with the expectation
that wireless communications will continue to work transparently and reliably.
Threat impacts may be described as follows:
1. Location Registers – disruption to mobility and roaming
2. Identity & Authentication Registers – disruption to security 59
3. Mobile Switching & Packet Core Entities – disruption to network availability
4. Mobility Management Core Entity – disruption to mobility and roaming
5. Core Signaling Entities – disruption to network availability and services
6. Core Policy Entities – disruption to services
ii. Services
1. WPS – Disruption to government entities that rely upon the DHS program at the
Federal, State, Local and Tribal areas relative to emergency preparedness. In the
case of a mobile device connection to a landline device relying on GETS,
disruption to GETS users may occur.
2. E911/NG911 – Disruption of the link to the 911 Service Provider provisioning to
local PSAP ability to link emergency callers with public resources to respond to an
emergency.
3. WEA – Disruption to the national mobile messaging alert system during
emergencies and imminent threats.
f. Relevant Subcategories
With the exception of those subcategories identified as “out‐of‐Scope” the balance of
the subcategories may be relevant and applicable to the generic use case, with
particular emphasis on the Top Priority Subcategories (see Subcategory Priority Analysis
in Section VI). In conforming to the NIST Framework, individual organizations identify
their core mission(s), critical infrastructure and risks to the communications sector
59 In addition to security, disruption may also impact network availability in the event that failure to authenticate
results in network access denial, the exception being emergency services, e.g. 911.
161The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
based on aspects most relevant to ensuring the reliability and integrity of the
communications infrastructure; thereby allowing for the flexibility for individual
companies to self‐determine how to apply the Framework.
Based on the generic use case described above and the defined top priority
subcategories and risk based processes, an illustrative Generic Profile is shown below
with the corresponding outcomes associated with each subcategory. The Generic Profile
serves as an example, where individual organizations may choose to incorporate
additional subcategories based on their individual circumstances and requirements. The
corresponding outcomes illustrate how a wireless organization may apply the chosen
subcategories most relevant to their business model and shows the results or outcomes
to expect from having done so.
GENERIC PROFILE EXAMPLE:
Framework Categories & Corresponding Outcomes
Subcategories (based on Top
Priority Subcategories)
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems Inventory of physical devices (Critical
within the organization are inventoried Assets) as described in Section VI
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and Inventory of software platforms and
applications within the organization are applications that correspond to Section VI
inventoried
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, Assets in Section VI are classified
devices, data and software) are according to criticality and business
prioritized based on their classification, mission
criticality, and business value
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information Security Policy is defined
security policy is established
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & Documented security roles and regular
responsibilities are coordinated and coordination between internal and
aligned with internal roles and external external partners
partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory Legal and regulatory requirements are
requirements regarding cybersecurity, established, organizational resources
including privacy and civil liberties identified to manage and update as
obligations, are understood and managed needed
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are Vulnerabilities are assessed and regularly
identified and documented monitored
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are Access control regime is implemented and
managed for authorized devices and audited
users
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is Physical access to assets defined in Section
managed and protected VI are managed and protected
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed Remote access to assetsdefined in Section
VI is managed and resources identified to
do so
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are Access control and corresponding
managed, incorporating the principles of permissions is defined and reflects
162The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Framework Categories & Corresponding Outcomes
Subcategories (based on Top
Priority Subcategories)
least privilege and separation of duties principle of least privilege and separation
of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is protected, Network is appropriately segregated as it
incorporating network segregation where relates to the assets identified in Section
appropriate VI
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure Network capacity is monitored and
availability is maintained maintained.
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response plans are defined and resources
Response and Business Continuity) and identified responsible for their
recovery plans (Incident Recovery and implementation.
Disaster Recovery) are in place and
managed
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of Remote access to the assets identified in
organizational assets is performed in a Section VI monitors and prevents
manner that prevents unauthorized unauthorized access.
access
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is Remote access to the assets identified in
controlled, incorporating the principle of Section VI implements principle of least
least functionality functionality.
PR.PT‐4: Communications and control Protection schemeimplemented to cover
networks are protected communications and control.
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to Cybersecurity monitoring and scans are
detect potential cybersecurity events routinely conducted.
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is The physical environment for the assets in
monitored to detect potential Section VI are monitored for cybersecurity
cybersecurity events threats.
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is monitored Personnel aremonitored in relation to the
to detect potential cybersecurity threats assets in Section VI.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected Tools are implemented to look for and
detect potential malicious code relative to
the assets in Section VI.
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed Definition of response plan and periodic
during or after an event “drills” are conducted.
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained Incident containment plan and procedure
is defined, and resources identified for
implementation.
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated Mitigations plans are defined and
resources identified for implementation.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed Recovery plan is defined and resources
during or after an event identified for execution during and after
an event.
163The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Based on the preceding analysis of priority subcategories, risk based processes and
generic use case definition the generic profile illustrates the corresponding set of
outcomes. The outcomes may be achieved within the existing wireless regulatory
framework to address conformity to the NIST Framework. This process is an illustrative
guide to help wireless organizations consider how to apply the NIST Framework to meet
the needs of their particular situation and risk model in a flexible fashion.
VIII. Conclusions & Recommendations: Wireless Segment
Based on the process and analysis outlined in Section VI above, the Wireless Segment
concludes that the analysis and generic use case reflects alignment with the NIST Framework
based on the defined methodology and risk assessment process. In addition the wireless
segment recommends the following for consideration:
1. No new regulations are warranted in order to address conformity with the NIST
Framework for the wireless segment.
2. Given the diversity within the wireless segment, continued flexibility is essential to use
and conform to the NIST Framework.
3. Continued focus on Cybersecurity by NIST and CSRIC in order to avoid fragmentation of
resources and efforts with regard to the diversity of government agencies that may
affect wireless related cybersecurity.
4. DHS should continue to be the Sector Specific Agency for Telecom, which will further
enable the advancement of the established programs and evolution of the NIST
Framework. The FCC should continue to partner with industry via the Government
Coordinating Council (GCC) and/or via voluntary measures such as CSRIC.
5. Consideration should be given regarding whether CSRIC IV work efforts will need to be
continued during CSRIC V study and adapt to the changing threat landscape and
continued alignment with the NIST Framework.
6. The wireless segment recommends that the orderly use and protection of licensed
spectrum be studied in a future CSRIC in the context of the NIST Framework and Critical
Infrastructure60.
7. Challenges to Overcome
As it relates to challenges to be overcome, the wireless segment defers to the
conclusions defined in this report by the Barriers Feeder Group, and adds the following
wireless specific items:
 The threat landscape in wireless varies and is different from traditional wireline or
other segment environments and therefore use and conformity to the NIST
Framework will vary and must be adapted for wireless entities.
 The diversity of technology (i.e. 2G, 3G, 4G and Wi‐Fi) serves to create a complex
environment that is global in scope where mobile devices can roam anywhere in the
United States, and from the United States to other countries around the globe, and
60 The study item would look to address the potential for moc/cloned infrastructure in licensed spectrum operating
outside lawfully authorized applications, as well as how to study resources that support critical services (e.g. WPS,
E911).
164The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 The wireless ecosystem is highly diversified across original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs), platform providers, operating system providers, service providers and over‐
the‐top providers.
165The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IX. Acknowledgments
The Wireless Segment acknowledges significant assistance and input from the Segment and
Feeder Sub‐groups within Working Group 4 per the list below.
1. Wireline
2. Broadcast
3. Ecosystem
4. Barriers
5. SMB
6. Cable
7. Satellite
8. Threats
9. Measurement and Metrics
X. Appendix
Informative References – limited to Assets and Services in Section VI above:
1. ISO 27001‐ http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/management‐
standards/iso27001.htm
2. SANS Top 20 ‐ http://www.sans.org/critical‐security‐controls/
3. X.805 ‐ http://www.itu.int/ITU‐T/worksem/ngn/200505/presentations/s5‐zelstan.pdf
4. CSRIC 2A ‐ http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric/
166The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.5 WIRELINE SEGMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
167The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................. 169
II. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................. 170
III. WIRELINE SEGMENT GROUP MEMBERS ....................................................... 170
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY ...................................................... 170
V. RESULTS AND FINDINGS: WIRELINE SEGMENT ............................................. 173
A. AREAS OF CRITICAL FOCUS OR ASSETS IN SCOPE ................................... 174
B. CRITICAL ASSETS/RISK MANAGEMENT ................................................... 177
C. CRITICAL SERVICES ................................................................................. 177
D. ALIGNMENT WITH THE NIST CYBERSECURITY FRAMEWORK ................. 177
VI. Wireline Critical Infrastructure Use Case ...................................................... 179
A. Definitions and Assumptions: ................................................................ 179
B. Critical Systems & Assets ........................................................................ 180
C. Threats ................................................................................................... 180
D. Generic Profile ........................................................................................ 180
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................. 182
168The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Wireline Segment group applied the NIST cybersecurity framework by developing a
sample profile of prioritized recommended practices to protect wireline critical
infrastructure. The approach taken by the Wireline Segment group was to develop a
sample profile based upon NIST’s proposed steps for the use of the NIST cybersecurity
framework which include, among others, prioritizing an organizations core business/mission
or objective, conducting a risk assessment to that core mission and creating a target or
desired profile or state of readiness to address cyber threats.
The segment group proceeded by defining critical areas of focus or assets in scope for this
analysis by applying the results from the National Sector Risk Assessment for
Communications (NSRA) conducted by the Communications Sector Coordinating Council
jointly with DHS in 2012. The NSRA assessed the risk to the communications infrastructure
from both physical incidents and cyber‐attacks. The results of this analysis concluded that
while all wireline network components are vulnerable to single incidents, the risks are
limited to local—and not regional or national— disruptions and/or outages. The main risk
area was determined to be third party support providers, submarine cable landing sites,
long haul fiber optic cables, and core transport nodes that are vulnerable to malicious
actors committing resource exhaustion…a threat that poses a substantial risk to national
disruptions and/or outages.”
Based upon the NSRA and analysis conducted by the Segment Group, the group decided to
focus the wireline critical infrastructure use case on the wireline network core
infrastructure as outlined in Figure 2‐3 below, and in particular core transport nodes
(MPLS/TDM switching, core routing) along with submarine cable landing sites, DNS servers,
and E911 routing systems and databases, which, if disrupted, would have the greatest
impact on service availability on a national or regional basis consistent with the catastrophic
standard for critical infrastructure discussed in Executive Order 13636.
To develop the priority practices to protect this infrastructure, the Segment Group then
analyzed each of the NIST Framework’s functional areas, categories and subcategories and
assessed them on a variety of factors including whether each functional area, category and
sub‐category is in or out of scope for the infrastructure assets identified above; how they
may be applied; their criticality to protecting against cyber threats (considering input from
the Threats Feeder Group); and difficulty to implement (considering input from the Barriers
Feeder Group including technological barriers, scale barriers, consumer/market barriers,
operational barriers, and legal/policy barriers). The results of this analysis were used to
categorize the various functional areas, categories and sub‐categories and develop a list of
the highest priority practices that could serve as a target profile for wireline network service
providers to manage cyber risk for wireline critical infrastructure.
169The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
II. INTRODUCTION
The Wireline Segment is a subgroup within CSRIC Working Group 4 focused on reducing
cybersecurity risk to wireline network infrastructure through the application of the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework. The Wireline Segment evaluated CSRIC’s existing cybersecurity
best practices to determine how best to address alignment with the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework.
III. WIRELINE SEGMENT GROUP MEMBERS
Rick Krock Alcatel‐Lucent
Chris Boyer AT&T
Paul Diamond
Centurylink
Stacy Hartman
Kevin Kastor Consolidated
Dan Cashman Fairpoint
Beau Monday Hawaiian Telecom
Chuck Brownawell Sprint
Robert Mayer USTelecom
Nneka Chiazor
Verizon
Danna Valsecchi
Greg Lucak Windstream
Note: The wireline working group materials were also shared and feedback accepted from a
variety of other segment groups including both wireline and cable.
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
The foundational objectives of Working Group 4 include the following61:
 To conform the NIST Framework to the communications sector. Identify core
mission(s), critical infrastructure and risks to the communications sector and organize
the NIST core Framework based on the aspects most relevant to ensuring the reliability
and integrity of the core communications infrastructure.
 Maintain flexibility for individual companies. As part of this exercise, based on updated
threat information and consistent with the NIST Framework, the conformed
communications sector Framework will allow flexibility for individual companies to self‐
determine how to apply the Framework to their business based upon their individual
risk profile, risk tolerance, and critical infrastructure ownership.
61 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
IV, Cybersecurity Risk Management Best Practices (WG4) (2014), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG‐4_Report_061814.pdf.
170The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Develop new streamlined practices that align with the Framework’s organization and
common risk management approaches. Use existing CSRIC Best Practices and other
resources to inform and organize the Framework with the goal of providing companies
with a “guide” of communication segment specific practices that companies may elect
to implement to mitigate cyber risk.
 Develop use cases/examples of how the Framework is being used within the sector.
Develop an appendix with illustrative examples or use cases about how the Framework
is being used or incorporated into risk management processes of communications
companies. Descriptions will be anonymized and provide examples that could be
considered by all sectors regarding how aspects of the Framework could be voluntarily
used.
 Provide guidance to incorporate the Framework into existing company risk management
processes. Determine high level processes that companies could perform, to the extent
they use the Framework, to incorporate it into their existing risk management program,
or build a cyber‐risk management program where none exists today.
The NIST Framework suggests seven steps for applying the Framework and, consistent with
the FCC’s charter for Working Group #4, allows for the Framework to be tailored by
individual companies to suit their unique needs characteristics, and risks. The steps include
the following:
 Step 1: Prioritize and Scope. The organization identifies its business/mission
objectives and high‐level organizational priorities. With this information, the
organization makes strategic decisions regarding cybersecurity implementations and
determines the scope of systems and assets that support the selected business line
or process. The Framework can be adapted to support the different business lines
or processes within an organization, which may have different business needs and
associated risk tolerance.
 Step 2: Orient. Once the scope of the cybersecurity program has been determined
for the business line or process, the organization identifies related systems and
assets, regulatory requirements, and overall risk approach. The organization then
identifies threats to, and vulnerabilities of, those systems and assets.
 Step 3: Create a Current Profile. The organization develops a Current Profile by
indicating which Category and Subcategory outcomes from the Framework Core are
currently being achieved.
 Step 4: Conduct a Risk Assessment. This assessment could be guided by the
organization’s overall risk management process or previous risk assessment
171The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
activities. The organization analyzes the operational environment in order to discern
the likelihood of a cybersecurity event and the impact that the event could have on
the organization. It is important that organizations seek to incorporate emerging
risks and threat and vulnerability data to facilitate a robust understanding of the
likelihood and impact of cybersecurity events.
 Step 5: Create a Target Profile. The organization creates a Target Profile that
focuses on the assessment of the Framework Categories and Subcategories
describing the organization’s desired cybersecurity outcomes. Organizations also
may develop their own additional Categories and Subcategories to account for
unique organizational risks. The organization may also consider influences and
requirements of external stakeholders such as sector entities, customers, and
business partners when creating a Target Profile.
 Step 6: Determine, Analyze, and Prioritize Gaps. The organization compares the
Current Profile and the Target Profile to determine gaps. Next it creates a prioritized
action plan to address those gaps that draws upon mission drivers, a cost/benefit
analysis, and understanding of risk to achieve the outcomes in the Target Profile.
The organization then determines resources necessary to address the gaps. Using
Profiles in this manner enables the organization to make informed decisions about
cybersecurity activities, supports risk management, and enables the organization to
perform cost‐effective, targeted improvements.
 Step 7: Implement Action Plan. The organization determines which actions to take
in regards to the gaps, if any, identified in the previous step. It then monitors its
current cybersecurity practices against the Target Profile. For further guidance, the
Framework identifies example Informative References regarding the Categories and
Subcategories, but organizations should determine which standards, guidelines, and
practices, including those that are sector specific, work best for their needs.
In order to inform wireline service providers about how to apply the Framework, the
wireline segment group has applied this methodology to identify the objective, core
assets, risks and prioritized common practices to develop a target profile for wireline
critical infrastructure. The purpose of this profile or use case is to provide an example of
the types of prioritized practices that an entity in the communications sector that owns
or operates critical infrastructure may want to apply, based upon their core mission and
risks, to protect that infrastructure. Individual companies should go through these steps
for to develop their own cyber risk management programs.
The example use case could also be informative beyond critical infrastructure, in that
the segment group would anticipate that the prioritized practices included in this
example would also equally apply to other large service providers. This report serves as
a guideline that wireline segment members may utilize to apply the Framework to
critical infrastructure and serves as a model for how individual companies may follow a
172The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
similar process as they deem appropriate. However, it is not intended to be a checklist
of standards that all organizations should follow.
In order to prioritize the NIST Framework best practices, the wireline segment
collaborated with other segment teams (e.g. wireless) to review and provide input on a
standard worksheet which considered the best practices according to a variety of
factors. These factors included considering whether each functional area, category and
sub‐category were in or out of scope, how they may be applied, their criticality to
protecting against cyber threats, and difficulty to implement. The working group also
considered several barriers to entry including technological barriers, scale barriers,
consumer/market barriers, operational barriers, and legal/policy barriers in assessing
the degree of difficulty to implementing individual practices.
Finally, as part of the criticality assessment, the wireline segment considered the various
threats that were outlined by the Threats Feeder Group. This analysis enabled the team
to categorize the various functional areas, categories and sub‐categories into three
buckets of practices: highest priority, mid‐tier and tertiary priority (as outlined in Section
IV below).
V. RESULTS AND FINDINGS: WIRELINE SEGMENT
In order to create a sample profile, the wireless segment first reviewed the NIST Framework
in the context of critical infrastructure. The Framework could also be viewed for other
factors beyond critical infrastructure consistent with each individual sector or company’s
priorities and core mission applying the seven steps outlined by NIST (discussed above).
In developing a representative profile for critical infrastructure the segment considered
critical infrastructure consistent with the definition discussed in President Obama’s
Executive Order on “Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity62” which states that
critical infrastructure includes those “systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so
vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets
would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public
health or safety, or any combination of those matters.”
Further, in 2012 the Communications Sector, in partnership with DHS, completed the 2012
Risk Assessment for Communications (referred to going forward as the National Sector Risk
Assessment or NSRA), updating its 2008 report ,which assessed physical and cyber threats
to the communications infrastructure. The risk assessment was intended to further the
goals of the Communications Sector Specific Plan, also developed jointly with DHS in 2010,
to identify and protect national critical network components, ensure overall network
reliability, maintain “always‐on” service for critical customers and quickly restore critical
62 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
173The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
communications functions and services following a disruption. The wireline segment
agreed that the scope of the efforts in working group #4 should build upon the work already
completed in the 2012 risk assessment.
A. AREAS OF CRITICAL FOCUS OR ASSETS IN SCOPE
The NSRA proposes an architectural model that divides the communications network
infrastructure into three components (1) services and applications, (2) core network and (3)
access networks. The access portion of the wireline network is defined “as the portion that
connects customers to service providers” stating that “typically, this portion of the network
begins at a service provider’s serving office and terminates at a customer’s location, using a
copper, fiber, or copper/fiber cable as the transmission medium” and that “this portion of
the line may be aerial or underground, or both”.
The wireline network is defined as being “composed of long haul transport networks; metro
fiber rings; Fiber‐to‐the‐Premise (FTTP); Fiber‐to‐the‐Home (FTTH); and Fiber‐to‐the‐x
(FTTx), where x represents all potential node varieties; as well as access networks that carry
voice, video, and Internet to end users. These various wireline networks remain the
backbone of the communications infrastructure.” The NSRA also combines the key
communications features and services of the core networks into what is referred to as the
“core network” and then identifies several service and application platforms such as voice,
video and data.
174The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Figure 2‐2 from the 2012 risk assessment illustrates the NSRA architectural model:
175The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Figure 2‐3 illustrates the various network components that comprise the “core network”:
176The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. CRITICAL ASSETS/RISK MANAGEMENT
The NSRA assessed the risk to the communications infrastructure from both physical
incidents and cyber‐attacks. The results of this analysis concluded that while all wireline
network components are vulnerable to single incidents, the risks are limited to local—and
not regional or national— disruptions and/or outages. The main risk area was determined
to be third party support providers, submarine cable landing sites, long haul fiber optic
cables, and core transport nodes that are vulnerable to malicious actors committing
resource exhaustion…a threat that poses a substantial risk to national disruptions and/or
outages.”
Based upon the NSRA and the analysis performed by the wireline segment group, the group
decided to focus the wireline critical infrastructure use case on the wireline network core
infrastructure as outlined in Figure 2‐3, and in particular focusing on the core transport
nodes (MPLS/TDM switching, core routing) along with submarine cable landing sites, DNS
servers, and E911 routing systems and databases, which, if disrupted, would have the
greatest impact on service availability on a national or regional basis.63
The wireline segment group excluded the access networks and other components of the
wireline network infrastructure because, while these elements may have some exposure to
cyber threats, any incident would largely be locally or regionally focused. Further, while the
Domain Name System (DNS) may be in scope, the issues presented by DNS also include
other parties in the ecosystem. Thus, while the Wireline Segment group can provide some
DNS practices specific to wireline service providers, this topic was viewed to be out of scope
for this group. With that said, there was general consensus that the government as a whole
should consider addressing the broader ecosystem challenges for DNS and routing security.
C. CRITICAL SERVICES
The wireline segment focused primarily on ensuring the reliability and integrity of wireline
core infrastructure which is supporting infrastructure for a wide variety of communications
services including voice (both TDM voice and VoIP) and data services. In addition, the
wireline segment reviewed the Framework in relation to how practices could also be
applied to ensure mission critical emergency communications services such as 911 or E911.
D. ALIGNMENT WITH THE NIST CYBERSECURITY FRAMEWORK
In order to develop a target profile the wireline segment developed a prioritized set of
common practices that may be applied by a wireline service provider to protect wireline
63 It is important to note that the wireline segment group is not suggesting that the wireline network core should
be considered critical infrastructure under the President’s Executive Order, which designates that the Department
of Homeland Security will make that determination.
177The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
critical infrastructure. The wireline segment group analyzed each of the NIST Framework’s
functional areas, categories and subcategories and assessed them on a variety of factors
including whether each functional area, category and sub‐category is in or out of scope for
the infrastructure assets identified above; how they may be applied; their criticality to
protecting against cyber threats (considering input from the Threats Feeder Group); and
difficulty to implement (considering input from the Barriers Feeder Group including
technological barriers, scale barriers, consumer/market barriers, operational barriers, and
legal/policy barriers). The results of this analysis were used to categorize the various
functional areas, categories and sub‐categories and develop a list of the highest priority
practices that could serve as a target profile for wireline network service providers to
manage cyber risk for wireline critical infrastructure.
Appendix A illustrates the application methodology and results of the prioritization exercise.
1) PRIORITY PRACTICES
The following table represents the highest priority practices identified by the segment
group based upon the methodology discussed above. As illustrated in Diagram XX, in
applying the methodology, additional practices were considered as part of this analysis
and were grouped into different categories. However, the 25 practices identified were
deemed to be the priority for wireline sector members to consider implementing to
provide a baseline for critical infrastructure protection. As appropriate, individual
businesses can apply the methodology outlined in this report, along with the process
proposed by NIST (evaluating their core business objectives/mission, risks and security
needs) to determine whether to apply these and additional NIST Framework components
to their critical infrastructure and/or other security needs.
HIGHEST PRIORITY PRACTICES
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems within the PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response and
organization are inventoried Business Continuity) and recovery plans (Incident
Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are in place and
managed
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and applications within PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of organizational assets
the organization are inventoried is performed in a manner that prevents unauthorized
access
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices, data PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is controlled,
and software) are prioritized based on their incorporating the principle of least functionality
classification, criticality, and business value
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information security policy is PR.PT‐4: Communications and control networks are
established protected
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & responsibilities DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to detect potential
are coordinated and aligned with internal roles and cybersecurity events
external partners
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory requirements regarding DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is monitored to
cybersecurity, including privacy and civil liberties detect potential cybersecurity events
obligations, are understood and managed
178The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are identified and DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is monitored to detect
documented potential cybersecurity threats
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are managed for DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected
authorized devices and users
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is managed and RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or after an
protected event
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are managed, RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated
incorporating the principles of least privilege and
separation of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is protected, incorporating RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed during or after an
network segregation where appropriate event
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure availability is
maintained
2) MAPPING TO CSRIC BEST PRACTICES
The segment group also considered how these prioritized practices map to the existing
FCC CSRIC cybersecurity best practices. Currently there are 437 cybersecurity practices
listed on the FCC’s website based upon input from previous CSRIC working groups. The
following is a mapping that demonstrates how some of the existing practices would
apply to the prioritized practices identified in the NIST Framework.
The wireline segment group is listing these mappings solely to serve as examples that
provide additional detail of steps a firm could take should they apply the priority
practices identified in 6.4.1 to mitigate their cybersecurity risk. This is not a full list and
is not intended to imply that wireline network service providers should apply the entire
set or portions thereof. Rather, this is an example showing how some CSRIC best
practices may align with the prioritized NIST practices to aid firms in determining steps
they may want to consider with implementing their voluntary program. The results of
this analysis are contained in Appendix B to this document.
VI. Wireline Critical Infrastructure Use Case
A. Definitions and Assumptions:
As defined in Presidential Executive Order 13636, Critical Infrastructure means systems and
assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or
destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security,
national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those
matters. The definition is taken from section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (42
U.S.C. 5195 (c)(e)). Also for the use case below the assumption is for a large sized
organization.
179The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Critical Systems & Assets
As noted above in Section V, based upon the NSRA and the analysis performed by the
wireline segment group, the wireline segment group focused on core transport nodes
(MPLS/TDM switching, core routing) along with submarine cable landing sites, DNS servers,
and E911 routing systems and databases, which, if disrupted, would have the greatest
impact on service availability on a national or regional basis and critical services such as 911
or E911.
C. Threats
The segment group considered the threats inputs from the Threats Feeder Group in
developing this analysis, as well as the criticality assessment outlined in the prioritization
exercise in Section V.
D. Generic Profile
The following is a generic profile or use case that a company may implement to protect
wireline critical infrastructure. If the prioritized practices are implemented by a company,
they may have the results captured in the table below. This table is illustrative only and
results will vary by company.
Prioritized Practice Anticipated Outcome
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems within the Inventory of physical devices (Critical Assets)
organization are inventoried
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and applications Inventory of software platforms and applications
within the organization are inventoried
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices, Assets in Section Vare classified according to
data and software) are prioritized based on their criticality and business mission
classification, criticality, and business value
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information security Security Policy is defined
policy is established
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & Documented security roles and regular
responsibilities are coordinated and aligned with coordination between internal and external
internal roles and external partners partners
180The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Prioritized Practice Anticipated Outcome
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory requirements Legal and regulatory requirements are
regarding cybersecurity, including privacy and established, organizational resources identified to
civil liberties obligations, are understood and manage and update as needed
managed
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are identified and Vulnerabilities are assessed and regularly
documented monitored
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are managed Access control regime is implemented and audited
for authorized devices and users
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is managed and Physical access to assets defined in Section V are
protected managed and protected
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed Remote access to assets defined in Section V is
managed and resources identified to do so
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are managed, Access control and corresponding permissions are
incorporating the principles of least privilege and defined and reflect principles of least privilege and
separation of duties separation of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is protected, Network is appropriately segregated as it relates
incorporating network segregation where to the assets identified in Section V
appropriate
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure availability Network capacity is monitored and maintained
is maintained
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response and Response plans are defined and resources
Business Continuity) and recovery plans (Incident responsible for their implementation are
Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are in place and identified
managed
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of organizational Remote access to the assets identified in Section V
assets is performed in a manner that prevents are implemented to monitor and prevent
unauthorized access unauthorized access
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is Remote access to the assets identified in Section V
controlled, incorporating the principle of least is implemented to ensure principle of least
functionality functionality.
181The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Prioritized Practice Anticipated Outcome
PR.PT‐4: Communications and control networks Protection scheme implemented to cover
are protected communications and control
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to detect Cybersecurity monitoring and scans are routinely
potential cybersecurity events conducted
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is monitored The physical environment for the assets in Section
to detect potential cybersecurity events V are monitored for cybersecurity threats
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is monitored to Personnel are monitored in relation to the assets
detect potential cybersecurity threats in Section V
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected Tools are implemented to look for and detect
potential malicious code relative to the assets in
Section V
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or Definition of response plan and periodic “drills”
after an event are conducted
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained Incident containment plan and procedure are
defined and resources identified for
implementation
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated Mitigations plans are defined and resources
identified for implementation.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed during or Recovery plan is defined and resources identified
after an event for execution during and after an event
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations
 Given the diversity within the wireline segment, continued flexibility is essential to use
and conform to the NIST Framework. Wireline network operators are best positioned
to understand their cybersecurity risks and should be afforded flexibility to apply the
Framework to their business needs.
 The FCC should continue to partner with industry to promote the voluntary use of the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework amongst all communications sector members, large and
small, as well as across other critical infrastructure sectors that are interdependent
with the communications sector.
182The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 The FCC should encourage the dissemination of the NIST Framework and the WG 4
report to appropriate communication sector member organizations, and in particular,
to management and staff with cybersecurity management and operational
responsibilities.
 The FCC should continue to collaborate with NIST and DHS in the further development
of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and promote programs to increase the voluntary
use of the CSF.
 The FCC should partner with other departments and agencies to promote education
and awareness of the cybersecurity risks inherent in critical communications
infrastructures, and promote steps that the communications sector can take to provide
external stakeholders with macro‐level assurance that collective actions are reducing
cybersecurity risks.
 The FCC should continue to provide flexibility to organizations and base use of the
framework based upon risk management principles of identifying critical assets, risks
and developing mitigation plans accordingly.
183CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
Is the function, category, sub‐ Explanation of how the function, Criticality of the given function, Difficulty for the implementation
category in scope as a best category, subcategory applies to category and subcategory on of the function, (Includes factors
practice for the critical the critical infrastructure as scale of 1 to 5 by segment. such as costs and barriers to
infrastructure "systems and defined by the sub‐group (Scale: 5= Extremely Critical, 4 = implementation). (Scale: 5= Not
assets" determined by the sub‐ (wireline, wireless, satellite, Very Critical, 3= Somewhat at all Difficult, 4 = Slightly
group (wireline, wireless, satellite, broadcast or cable). Critical, 2 = Slightly Critical, 1 = Difficult, 3= Somewhat Difficult, 2
broadcast or cable)? (In‐scope or Not at all Critical). = Very Difficult, 1 = Extremely
Out‐of‐Scope). Difficult).
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
systems within the organization are of cyber risk management
inventoried program.
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
applications within the organization of cyber risk management
are inventoried program.
ID.AM‐3: Organizational Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
communication and data flows are of cyber risk management
mapped program.
ID.AM‐4: External information In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 2
systems are catalogued of cyber risk management
program.
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
devices, data and software) are of cyber risk management
prioritized based on their program.
classification, criticality, and business
value
184CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
ID.AM‐6: Cybersecurity roles and Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
responsibilities for the entire of cyber risk management
workforce and third‐party program.
stakeholders (e.g., suppliers,
customers, partners) are established
ID.BE‐1: Organization's role in the Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
supply chain is identified and of cyber risk management
communicated program.
ID.BE‐2: Organization's place in In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
critical infrastructure and its industry of cyber risk management
sector is identified and program.
communicated
ID.BE‐3: Priorities for organizational Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
mission, objectives and actives are of cyber risk management
established and communicated program.
ID.BE‐4: Dependencies and critical In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
functions for delivery of critical of cyber risk management
services are established program.
ID.BE‐5: Resilience requirements to In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
support delivery of critical services of cyber risk management
are established program.
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
security policy is established of cyber risk management
program.
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
responsibilities are coordinated and of cyber risk management
aligned with internal roles and program.
external partners
185CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
requirements regarding of cyber risk management
cybersecurity, including privacy and program.
civil liberties obligations, are
understood and managed
ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
management processes address of cyber risk management
cybersecurity risks program.
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are Rephrase ‐ Asset vulnerabilities Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
identified and documented and threats are identified of cyber risk management
program.
ID.RA‐2: Threat and vulnerability In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 5
information is received from of cyber risk management
information sharing forums and program.
sources
ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and Rephrase ‐ Asset vulnerabilities Critical infrastructure or as part 1 4
external, are identified and and threats are documented of cyber risk management
documented program.
ID.RA‐4: Potential business impacts Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
and likelihoods are identified of cyber risk management
program.
ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 4
likelihoods, and impacts are used to of cyber risk management
determine risk program.
ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are identified In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 4
and prioritized of cyber risk management
program.
186CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
ID.RM‐1: Risk management processes In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 4
are established, managed, and of cyber risk management
agreed to by organizational program.
stakeholders
ID.RM‐2: Organizational risk In Scope ‐ only for personnel that Critical infrastructure or as part 1 3
tolerance is determined and clearly work with critical infrastructure of cyber risk management
expressed assets program.
ID.RM‐3: The organization's In Scope ‐ same as above Critical infrastructure or as part 1 5
determination of risk tolerance is of cyber risk management
informed by its role in critical program.
infrastructure and sector specific risk
analysis
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
are managed for authorized devices of cyber risk management
and users program.
PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
managed and protected of cyber risk management
program.
PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
of cyber risk management
program.
PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
managed, incorporating the of cyber risk management
principles of least privilege and program.
separation of duties
PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 4
protected, incorporating network of cyber risk management
segregation where appropriate program.
187CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
PR.AT‐1: All users are informed and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 4
trained of cyber risk management
program.
PR.AT‐2: Privileged users understand In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
roles & responsibilities of cyber risk management
program.
PR.AT‐3: Third‐party stakeholders In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
(e.g., suppliers customers, partners) of cyber risk management
understand roles & responsibilities program.
PR.AT‐4: Senior executives Only senior executives that are Critical infrastructure or as part 3 5
understand roles & responsibilities responsible for overseeing critical of cyber risk management
infrastructure program.
PR.AT‐5: Physical and information Only information security Critical infrastructure or as part 4 5
security personnel understand roles personnel that are responsible for of cyber risk management
and responsibility overseeing critical infrastructure program.
PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 4
of cyber risk management
program.
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
of cyber risk management
program.
PR.DS‐3: Assets are formally In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
managed throughout removal, of cyber risk management
transfers and disposition program.
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
ensure availability is maintained of cyber risk management
program.
188CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
PR.DS‐5: Protections against data In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
leaks are implemented of cyber risk management
program.
PR.DS‐6: Integrity checking In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 2
mechanisms are used to verify of cyber risk management
software, firmware, and information program.
integrity
PR.DS‐7: The development and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
testing environment(s) are separate of cyber risk management
from the production environment program.
PR.IP‐1: A baseline configuration of In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 2
information technology/industrial of cyber risk management
control systems is created and program.
maintained
PR.IP‐2: A System Development Life Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
Cycle to manage systems is of cyber risk management
implemented program.
PR.IP‐3: Configuration change control In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 3
processes are in place of cyber risk management
program.
PR.IP‐4: Backups of information are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
conducted, maintained and tested of cyber risk management
periodically program.
PR.IP‐5: Policy and regulations In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 4
regarding the physical operating of cyber risk management
environment for organizational program.
assets are met
189CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
PR.IP‐6: Data is destroyed according In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 3
to policy of cyber risk management
program.
PR.IP‐7: Protection processes are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 3
continuously improved of cyber risk management
program.
PR.IP‐8: Effectiveness of protection In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 5
technologies is shared with of cyber risk management
appropriate parties program.
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
Response and Business Continuity) of cyber risk management
and recovery plans (Incident program.
Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are
in place and managed
PR.IP‐10: Response and recovery In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 2
plans are tested of cyber risk management
program.
PR.IP‐11: Cybersecurity is included in Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
human resources practices (e.g., of cyber risk management
deprovisioning, personnel screening) program.
PR.IP‐12: A vulnerability In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
management plan is developed and of cyber risk management
implemented program.
PR.MA‐1: Maintenance and repair of In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
organizational assets is performed of cyber risk management
and logged in a timely manner, with program.
approved and controlled tools
190CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
organizational assets is performed in of cyber risk management
a manner that prevents unauthorized program.
access
PR.PT‐1: Audit/log records are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 3
determined, documented, of cyber risk management
implemented, and reviewed in program.
accordance with policy
PR.PT‐2: Removable media is In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
protected and its use restricted of cyber risk management
according to policy program.
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
assets is controlled, incorporating the of cyber risk management
principle of least functionality program.
PR.PT‐4: Communications and In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
control networks are protected of cyber risk management
program.
DE.AE‐1: A baseline of network In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
operations and expected data flows of cyber risk management
for users and systems is established program.
and managed
DE.AE‐2: Detected events are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
analyzed to understand attack of cyber risk management
targets and methods program.
DE.AE‐3: Event data are aggregated In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 1
and correlated from multiple sources of cyber risk management
and sensors program.
191CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
DE.AE‐4: Impact of events is In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
determined of cyber risk management
program.
DE.AE‐5: Incident alert thresholds are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
established of cyber risk management
program.
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
to detect potential cybersecurity of cyber risk management
events program.
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
is monitored to detect potential of cyber risk management
cybersecurity events program.
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
monitored to detect potential of cyber risk management
cybersecurity threats program.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 1
of cyber risk management
program.
DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 1
is detected of cyber risk management
program.
DE.CM‐6: External service provider In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 2
activity is monitored to detect of cyber risk management
potential cybersecurity events program.
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring for In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 2
unauthorized personnel, of cyber risk management
connections, devices, and software is program.
performed
192CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
DE.CM‐8: Vulnerability scans are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
performed of cyber risk management
program.
DE.DP‐1: Roles and responsibilities In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 4
for detection are well defined to of cyber risk management
ensure accountability program.
DE.DP‐2: Detection activities comply In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 2
with applicable requirements of cyber risk management
program.
DE.DP‐3: Detection processes are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 2
tested of cyber risk management
program.
DE.DP‐4: Event detection information Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
is communicated to appropriate of cyber risk management
parties program.
DE.DP‐6: Detection processes are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 2
continuously improved of cyber risk management
program.
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 2
during or after an event of cyber risk management
program.
RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their roles In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
and order of operations when a of cyber risk management
response is needed program.
RS.CO‐2: Events are reported In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 4
consistent with established criteria of cyber risk management
program.
193CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
RS.CO‐3: Information is shared In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 4
consistent with response plans of cyber risk management
program.
RS.CO‐4: Coordination with Out of Scope Critical infrastructure or as part
stakeholders occurs consistent with of cyber risk management
response plans program.
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary information In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 2
sharing occurs with external of cyber risk management
stakeholders to achieve broader program.
cybersecurity situational awareness
RS.AN‐1: Notifications from detection In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 3
systems are investigated of cyber risk management
program.
RS.AN‐2: The impact of the incident In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 3 3
is understood of cyber risk management
program.
RS.AN‐3: Forensics are performed In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 2 1
of cyber risk management
program.
RS.AN‐4: Incidents are categorized In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 2
consistent with plans of cyber risk management
program.
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 1
of cyber risk management
program.
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 1
of cyber risk management
program.
194CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix A
Sub‐Category In Scope/Out of Scope Application Prioritization
Criticality Difficulty
RS.MN‐3: Newly identified In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 4 2
vulnerabilities are mitigated or of cyber risk management
documented as accepted risks program.
RS.IM‐1: Response plans incorporate In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 4
lessons learned of cyber risk management
program.
RS.IM‐2: Response strategies are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 4
updated of cyber risk management
program.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 5 3
during or after an event of cyber risk management
program.
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plans incorporate In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 3
lessons learned of cyber risk management
program.
RC.RP‐2: Recovery strategies are In Scope Critical infrastructure or as part 1 3
updated of cyber risk management
program.
195CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems 9‐9‐8037 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public 9‐8‐8750 Risk Assessments: Service providers and
within the organization are Safety should maintain a complete inventory of elements to network operators should have assigned risk ratings for
inventoried ensure that patches/fixes can be properly applied across the vulnerabilities and definitions of those risk ratings (i.e.
organization. This inventory should be updated each time a What does a High risk vulnerability mean to the general
patch/fix is identified and action is taken. user public? etc.) Finally the security team should have
access to an accurate and readily available asset
inventory (See Step 1: Asset Inventory) (including the
asset owners, and patch levels) and network diagrams.
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident 9‐8‐8549 Lack of Business Recovery Plan: When a Business 9‐9‐8068 Service Providers, Network Operators, Public
Response and Business Recovery Plan (BRP) does not exist; Service Providers and Safety, and Equipment Suppliers should develop and
Continuity) and recovery Network Operators should bring together an ad‐hoc team to practice a communications plan as part of the broader
plans (Incident Recovery and address the current incident. The team should have technical, Incident response plan identifying key players to include
Disaster Recovery) are in operations, legal, and public relations representation. Team as many of the following items as appropriate: contact
place and managed should be sponsored by senior management and have a direct names, business telephone numbers, home telephone
communication path back to management sponsor. If numbers, pager numbers, fax numbers, cell phone
situation exceeds internal capabilities consider contracting numbers, home addresses, internet addresses,
response/recovery options to 3rd party security provider. permanent bridge numbers, etc. Notification plans
should be developed prior to an event/incident
happening where necessary. The plan should also include
alternate communications channels (e.g., alpha pagers,
internet, satellite phones, VOIP, private lines, smart
phones) balancing the value of any alternate method
against the security and information loss risks
introduced.
196CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and 9‐9‐8037 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public 9‐8‐8750 Risk Assessments: Service providers and
applications within the Safety should maintain a complete inventory of elements to network operators should have assigned risk ratings for
organization are inventoried ensure that patches/fixes can be properly applied across the vulnerabilities and definitions of those risk ratings (i.e.
organization. This inventory should be updated each time a What does a High risk vulnerability mean to the general
patch/fix is identified and action is taken. user public? etc.) Finally the security team should have
access to an accurate and readily available asset
inventory (See Step 1: Asset Inventory) (including the
asset owners, and patch levels) and network diagrams.
PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of 9‐8‐0785 Network Operation Center (NOC)
organizational assets is 9‐6‐5165 Network Operators, Service Providers and Communications Remote Access: Network Operators
performed in a manner that Equipment Suppliers should ensure that teleworkers (e.g., and Service Providers should consider secured remote
prevents unauthorized access remote software developers) have the equipment and support access to critical network management systems for
necessary to secure their computing platforms and systems to network management personnel working from
the equivalent level of those on‐site. Security software, distributed locations (e.g., back‐up facility, home) in the
firewalls and locked file cabinets are all considerations. event of a situation where the NOC cannot be staffed
(e.g., pandemic).
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, 9‐7‐5022 Network Operators, Service Providers and
devices, data and software) Equipment Suppliers should internally identify and document
are prioritized based on their areas of critical infrastructure as part of security and
classification, criticality, and emergency response planning. This documentation should be
business value kept current and protected as highly sensitive proprietary
information.
PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets 9‐9‐8086 Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety,
is controlled, incorporating and Equipment Suppliers based on the principles of least–
the principle of least privilege (the minimum access needed to perform the job) and
functionality separation of duties (certain users perform certain tasks)
should develop capabilities and processes to determine which
users require access to a specific device or application.
ID.GV‐1: Organizational information
security policy is established
197CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
PR.PT‐4: Communications and control 9‐8‐8015 Segmenting Management Domains: For OAM&P
networks are protected activities and operations centers, Service Providers and
Network Operators should segment administrative domains
with devices such as firewalls that have restrictive rules for
traffic in both directions and that require authentication for
traversal. In particular, segment OAM&P networks from the
Network Operator's or Service Provider's intranet and the
Internet. Treat each domain as hostile to all other domains.
Follow industry recommended firewall policies for protecting
critical internal assets.
ID.GV‐2: Information security roles & 9‐7‐5031 Network Operators, Service Providers and
responsibilities are Equipment Suppliers should establish a role for the security
coordinated and aligned with function (i.e., physical and cyber) in business continuity
internal roles and external planning, including emergency response plans and periodic
partners tests of such plans.
DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to 9‐9‐0401 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public
detect potential cybersecurity Safety should monitor their network to enable quick response
events to network issues.
ID.GV‐3: Legal and regulatory 9‐8‐8922 Privacy Considerations in Botnet Detection,
requirements regarding Notification, and Remediation:
cybersecurity, including Because technical measures to (a) detect compromised
privacy and civil liberties end‐user devices, (b) notify end‐users of the security
obligations, are understood issue, and (c) assist in addressing the security issue, may
and managed result in the collection of customer information
(including possibly personally identifiable information
and other sensitive information, as well as the content of
customer communications), ISPs should ensure that all
such technical measures address customers privacy, and
comply and be consistent with all applicable laws and
corporate privacy policies.
198CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is
monitored to detect potential
cybersecurity events
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are 9‐9‐8071 Threat Awareness: Service providers and Network
identified and documented Operators should subscribe to vendor patch/security
notifications and services to remain current with new
vulnerabilities, viruses, and other security flaws relevant to
systems deployed on the network.
DE.CM‐3: Personnel activity is
monitored to detect potential
cybersecurity threats
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are 9‐8‐8601 Wi‐Fi Policies: Service Providers and Network
managed for authorized Operators should establish policies to ensure only authorized
devices and users wireless devices approved by the network managing body or
network security are allowed on the network. Unauthorized
devices should be strictly forbidden.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected 9‐7‐0542 Equipment Supplier processes (e.g., software 9‐7‐5218 Equipment Suppliers should implement a
upgrade) should include prevention and detection of malicious comprehensive security program for protecting
code insertion from Original Equipment Manufacturers hardware, firmware and software from malicious code
(OEMs), contractors, and disgruntled employees. insertion or tampering during development and delivery,
taking into consideration that some developmental
environments around the world present a higher risk
level than others.
PR.AC‐2: 62 best practices Physical 9‐7‐5010 Network Operators, Service Providers and
access to assets is managed Equipment Suppliers should deploy security measures in
and protected proportion to the criticality of the facility or area being served.
199CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed 9‐7‐0779 Network Operators, Service Providers and 9‐7‐5031 Network Operators, Service Providers and
during or after an event Equipment Suppliers should establish a means to allow for Equipment Suppliers should establish a role for the
coordination between cyber and physical security teams security function (i.e., physical and cyber) in business
supporting preparedness, response, investigation and analysis. continuity planning, including emergency response plans
and periodic tests of such plans.
PR.AC‐3: Remote access is managed
9‐6‐5165 Network Operators, Service Providers and
Equipment Suppliers should ensure that teleworkers (e.g.,
remote software developers) have the equipment and support
necessary to secure their computing platforms and systems to
the equivalent level of those on‐site. Security software,
firewalls and locked file cabinets are all considerations.
RS.MN‐1: Incidents are contained
PR.AC‐4: Access permissions are 9‐9‐8086 Network Operators, Service Providers, Public Safety,
managed, incorporating the and Equipment Suppliers based on the principles of least–
principles of least privilege privilege (the minimum access needed to perform the job) and
and separation of duties separation of duties (certain users perform certain tasks)
should develop capabilities and processes to determine which
users require access to a specific device or application.
RS.MN‐2: Incidents are mitigated
PR.AC‐5: Network integrity is 9‐9‐8008 Network Operators, Service Providers, and Public
protected, incorporating Safety should implement architectures that partition or
network segregation where segment networks and applications using means such as
appropriate firewalls, demilitarized zones (DMZ), or virtual private
networks (VPN) so that contamination or damage to one asset
does not disrupt or destroy other assets. In particular, where
feasible, it is suggested user traffic networks, network
management infrastructure networks, customer transaction
system networks, and enterprise communication/business
operations networks be separated and partitioned from one
another.
200CSRIC Working Group 4
Wireline Segment Report
Appendix B
FP # Framework Practice Examples from CSRIC BestPractices
RC.RP‐1: Recovery plan is executed 9‐7‐0779 Network Operators, Service Providers and
during or after an event Equipment Suppliers should establish a means to allow for
coordination between cyber and physical security teams
supporting preparedness, response, investigation and analysis.
PR.DS‐4: Adequate capacity to ensure
availability is maintained
201The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.6 REQUIREMENTS AND BARRIERS TO IMPLEMENTATION
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
202The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ....................................................................................... 204
II. Introduction .................................................................................................. 205
A. Feeder Group Structure ......................................................................... 205
B. Background ............................................................................................ 206
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology .............................................................. 208
A. Results and Findings ............................................................................... 209
IV. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................. 214
V. Appendix ....................................................................................................... 215
203The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. Executive Summary
The Requirements and Barriers to Implementation feeder group was tasked with identifying the
available protocols, resources and tools that would be necessary for organizations to deploy in
order to effectuate alignment with the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST)
Cybersecurity Framework (“Framework”) as well as examine barriers and other challenges to
communications sector organizations’ implementation of the Framework. In order to identify
these requirements and barriers, the feeder group conducted interviews with each segment
group and conducted an in‐depth analysis of the NIST Framework down to the subcategory
level, to identify operational and technical requirements.
Through interviews with the Segment groups, the feeder team found that existing CSRIC‐IV
resources, specifically WG5 on Remediation of Server‐Based DDoS Attacks, presented us with a
thoughtful framework for examining implementation challenges. Building on the WG5 work,
the Requirements and Barriers Feeder Group identified five primary types of barriers to
Framework implementation:
1. Financial barriers
2. Legal barriers
3. Technical barriers
4. Consumer/market barriers
5. Operational barriers
Chief among these barriers are the financial costs of implementing the Framework. While for
large organizations the cybersecurity practices outlined in the NIST Framework would largely be
considered just a cost of doing business, the majority of small to medium‐sized organizations
would view these as costs with no calculable direct return on investment. The Requirements
and Barriers Feeder Group suggests several methods for mitigating financial barriers to
implementation including recommending the federal government continue the work on
creating a menu of market incentives ‐‐ initiated by the U.S. Departments of the Treasury,
Commerce, and Homeland Security, and the General Services Administration
(GSA)/Department of Defense (DOD) joint effort– that was initiated in EO 13636. Other
incentives the feeder group recommends include increased liability protections, Expansion of
the National Wireless Initiative to include Framework Implementation Tiers, SAFETY Act
designations, and other tax incentives.
As part of its comprehensive analysis of existing protocols and resources, the Requirements and
Barriers Feeder Group analyzed the entire NIST Cybersecurity Framework down to the sub‐
category level to identify operational and technical requirements for all 98 sub‐categories.
Recognizing that people and processes are the heart of any implementation, the feeder group’s
broadened examination looked at requirements involving human resources, specific expertise,
training, and the processes necessary for achieving the subcategory recommendation. These
operational and technical requirements were ultimately incorporated into the feeder group’s
204The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
findings and recommendations, as well as the comprehensive Appendix A that includes
informative references.
II. Introduction
The Requirements and Barriers to Implementation feeder group was tasked with considering
whether barriers exist that challenge the ability of communications companies with
implementing the NIST Framework. Besides examining barriers, the feeder group sought to
elicit methods by which these barriers might be overcome.
A. Feeder Group Structure
The Requirements and Barriers to Implementation working group consist of the members
listed below:
Name Company
Larry Clinton (Co‐Chair) Internet Security Alliance
Harold Salters (Co‐Chair) T‐Mobile
Richard Krock Alcatel‐Lucent
Chris Garner CenturyLink
Stacy Hartman CenturyLink
Matthew Starr CompTIA
Chris Smith Consolidated
Communications
Emily Talaga FCC
Jim Capers Hawaiian Telecom
Merike Kaeo Internet Identity
Tanner Doucet Internet Security Alliance
Ed Czarnecki Monroe Electronics
Brad Ramsay NARUC
Pam Witmer PA PUC
Brian Scarpelli TIA
Arthur (Trey) Jackson T‐Mobile
Tom Soroka USTelecom Association
Heath McGinnis Verizon
205The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. Background
1) Financial
Research from Pricewaterhouse64, CIO Magazine65, CSIS66, and McAfee67 has
consistently found that cost is the single biggest barrier to implementing adequate
cybersecurity for critical infrastructure. Historically, this has been less true for large
organizations. Large enterprises have traditionally marshaled the financial and the
human resources necessary to evaluate where the enterprise stands with respect to the
98 categories and subcategories of the Framework.
However, as cyber threats continue to evolve, financial considerations could become a
more pressing issue ‐ even for larger enterprises. In particular, an increase in attacks by
nation states on private firms could substantially alter the economic equation with
respect to cybersecurity. Any private company, regardless of their extensive use of the
Framework, is unlikely to be able to withstand a concerted attack from a sophisticated
nation‐state that is attempting to breach its system. In addition, larger companies can
be compromised through the thousands, sometimes tens of thousands, of
interconnections they have with smaller players whose use of the Framework may be
impractical to fully track.
Small and medium‐sized businesses, however, have much more limited operating and
capital resources, and require a stricter prioritization regimen that is often driven by the
return on investment (ROI). With this in mind, it is important to recognize that
determining the ROI for the technology and processes that underlie an organization’s
cybersecurity posture is very difficult and ultimately makes identifying the mix of
technologies and processes to invest in difficult. Money spent on security controls
which cannot be accurately analyzed to determine their value can result in more austere
fiscal environments – thus creating more financial barriers to implementation. For small
and medium businesses, these uncertainties can accumulate and further erode efforts
to boost the enterprise’s cybersecurity posture and/or maturity level.
The time and resources it may take for an organization to systematically go through all
98 categories and sub‐categories of the Framework should be taken into consideration
when examining financial barriers. Since it is unclear what “framework
implementation” means, the time and money it takes for an organization to determine
64 See PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’), Changing the Game – Key Findings from the Global State of Information
Security (2013), available at http://www.pwc.com/gx/en/consulting‐services/information‐security‐
survey/assets/2013‐giss‐report.pdf.
65 See Chief Executive Officer Magazine, http://www.cio.com/about/about.html (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
66 See Center for Strategic and International Studies, http://csis.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
67 See McAfee and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Economic Impact of Cybercrime and
Cyber Espionage (2013), available at http://www.mcafee.com/us/resources/reports/rp‐economic‐impact‐
cybercrime.pdf.
206The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
what implementation means for them (both onetime cost and continuing costs) can be
considered a significant barrier to implementation.
2) Legal
The main legal/policy barrier to Framework implementation is the uncertainty around
information sharing. There is consensus among the sub‐team participants that the
current lack of a legislative foundation to facilitate information sharing serves as a
barrier to implementation. The sub‐team believes that legislation which supports
increased liability protections for information sharing would decrease uncertainty and
allow for a more proactive approach to implementing better cybersecurity information
sharing practices.
3) Technology
There is uncertainty around the value of certain technologies, which relates to the
financial barriers discussed above – particularly the barrier regarding the inability to
determine the ROI of implementing a single technology solution or suite of
technologies. The degree to which technology can be a barrier to implementation of
the NIST framework is fundamentally a function of an enterprise’s resources, as further
tempered by the enterprise’s Tier position and their risk management profile.
4) Consumer/Market
Consumers, who largely do not know or care about NIST Framework implementation,
generally want to trust that security is embedded in and working for the products and
services they utilize. As such, the sub‐team believes that NIST framework
implementation, which it assumes will result in increased security, will be a market
incentive. Correspondingly, while customers often care about security, notifications
sent to customers that are compromised may do little to improve overall security.
Additionally, consumers may be alarmed when notified about compromised security –
which can result in them expressing concerns about the privacy of their data.
5) Operational
The lack of ability to provide quantifiable metrics to demonstrate that implementing the
Framework actually increases security may serve as a barrier to future implementation.
If companies are unable to identify reasonable metrics that demonstrate security is
being improved through the Framework’s 98 sub‐categories, then companies may be
less likely to implement the Framework.
While there may be a diversity of threats facing the communications sector, there are
common vulnerabilities that, if properly addressed, can be leveraged to overcome barriers,
which are more fully discussed below. The NIST Framework presents Informative
References that can be analyzed to identify solutions to common modes of exploitation.
207The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
III. Objective, Scope and Methodology
The objective of the requirements and barriers feeder group was to assess the required
resources (both operational and technical) that an entity needs to implement the NIST
Framework and to identify the various barriers that entities may need to overcome to
successfully implement the NIST C Framework.
In order to accomplish this work, the requirements and barriers feeder group initiated 1) an
interview and analysis effort and 2) a NIST Framework requirements and barriers effort.
The interview and analysis effort/work was performed by interviewing representatives from
Working Group 4’s four industry segments (Wireline, Wireless, Satellite and Cable) and the
Small/Medium Business Feeder Group. These interviews consisted of discussions around the
22 categories of the NIST Framework and the implementation challenges that existed. These
challenges were then considered using the analytic barriers framework that was first
introduced by CSRIC III Working Group 768 (i.e., financial, legal/policy, technological,
consumer/market and operational), and also employed by CSRIC IV Working Group 569.
As the second part of the overall Requirements and Barriers effort, the entire NIST
Cybersecurity Framework was analyzed to identify operational and technical requirements for
all 98 sub‐categories of the Framework. The subgroup categorized the subcategory
recommendation where the requirements involved human resources, specific expertise,
training, teams of people, and the processes necessary for achieving the subcategory
recommendation, as “Operational Requirements”. For every subcategory recommendation
where the requirements involved technology resources, systems, software, tools and the
associated technical functions necessary for achieving the subcategory recommendation, as the
group categorized as “Technology Requirements”.
All of the newly defined operational and technology requirements were then evaluated for
various types of impediments that could occur when implementing the Framework. These
impediments resulted in the barriers that were identified and outlined below for each of the 98
subcategories of the NIST Framework.
These operational and technical requirements, along with the corresponding identified barriers
to implementing the 98 subcategories of the NIST Framework were drawn from the collective
operational and technical experience of the subject matter experts participating on the
Requirements and Barriers subgroup, as well as from the NIST Special Publication 800‐53,
68 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
III, Working Group 5 ‐ DNSSEC Implementation Practices for ISPs Final Report on Measurement of DNSSEC
Deployment (2013), available at
http://transition.fcc.gov/bureaus/pshs/advisory/csric3/CSRIC_III_WG5_Report_March_%202013.pdf.
69 See Federal Communications Commission, The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council
IV ‐ Working Group 5, WORKING GROUP 5 Remediation of Server ‐ Based DDoS Attacks Final Report (2014),
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG5_Remediation_of_Server‐
Based_DDoS_Attacks_Report_Final_(pdf)_V11.pdf.
208The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, along with
the documents and COBIT framework developed by the Information Systems Audit and Control
Association (ISACA). The culmination of this effort resulted in a table depicting all of the NIST
Framework main categories, the 98 framework subcategories, the requirements and barriers,
and the specific references to the NIST Special Publication 800‐53 and ISACA documents. This
table can be found in the Appendix of this document70.
A. Results and Findings
The following feedback was provided during surveys with the Wireless, Wireline, Cable and
Satellite segments, as well as the Small and Medium Business Feeder Group:
1) Identify Function
Relevant Categories: Primary Barrier:
Asset Management (ID.AM): The Financial: Barriers are dependent on the
data, personnel, devices, systems, and size of an organization, and costs are not
facilities that enable the organization linear. Marginal cost for improving Tier
to achieve business purposes are position is often exponential. Nonetheless,
identified and managed consistent enterprises should use the NIST
with their relative importance to framework’s Tier definitions to determine
business objectives and the their current posture, and where they want
organization’s risk strategy. to be. (FINANCIAL)
Business Environment (ID.BE): The Technology: There is no specific set of
organization’s mission, objectives, technologies for implementing the
stakeholders, and activities are framework, as they are evolving and
understood and prioritized; this changing. Barrier is the complexity of the
information is used to inform problem. Nonetheless, full assessment of
cybersecurity roles, responsibilities, the Business Environment should be
and risk management decisions. undertaken as a starting point for risk
management calculations.
(TECHNOLOGY)
Governance (ID.GV): The policies, Legal/Policy: Difficulties in differentiating
procedures, and processes to manage between what is classified and what is non-
and monitor the organization’s classified information. For segments like
regulatory, legal, risk, environmental, Satellite, differentiation between the
and operational requirements are federal government (classified) and
understood and inform the consumer/enterprise markets (unclassified)
management of cybersecurity risk. makes governance determinations more
70 The exact document references are described in the right most column of the requirements and barriers table in
the Appendix.
209The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
complex. (LEGAL/POLICY)
Risk Assessment (ID.RA): The Operational: Challenge in obtaining and
organization understands the being able to discern what information is
cybersecurity risk to organizational reliable and what is not in a complex threat
operations (including mission, environment. Nonetheless, undertaking a
functions, image, or reputation), Risk Assessment on a best-available basis
organizational assets, and individuals. is a necessary starting point for risk
management calculations.
(OPERATIONAL)
Risk Management Strategy Financial: There is little cyber empirical
(ID.RM): The organization’s data to support ROI calculations, as it is
priorities, constraints, risk tolerances, very difficult to determine risk exposure.
and assumptions are established and Barriers can be mitigated, however,
used to support operational risk through the use of informed risk
decisions. management resources, such as the
National Association of Corporate
Director’s Cyber Risk Oversight
Handbook, published in collaboration with
the Internet Security Alliance.
2) Protect Function
Relevant Categories: Primary Barrier:
Access Control (PR.AC): Access to Financial: Legacy systems require
assets and associated facilities is significant investments to implement
limited to authorized users, processes, framework, and there would be a lower
or devices, and to authorized activities ROI. Companies should use the NIST Tier
and transactions. position analysis to determine where they
currently are, and where they want to be.
(FINANCIAL)
Awareness and Training (PR.AT): Operational: Difficult to implement and
The organization’s personnel and gauge effectiveness of training in a
partners are provided cybersecurity complex threat environment.
awareness education and are (OPERATIONAL)
adequately trained to perform their
information security-related duties
and responsibilities consistent with
related policies, procedures, and
agreements.
210The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Data Security (PR.DS): Information Financial: Money spent on security
and records (data) are managed controls cannot be accurately analyzed to
consistent with the organization’s risk determine their value. Companies should
strategy to protect the confidentiality, use the NIST framework’s Tiers to
integrity, and availability of determine where they currently are, and
information. where they want to be. (FINANCIAL)
Information Protection Processes Technology: Wide diversity of
and Procedures (PR.IP): Security technologies and available solutions is a
policies (that address purpose, scope, complexity barrier. Although unique
roles, responsibilities, management systems, enterprises should analyze for
commitment, and coordination among common vulnerabilities/modes of
organizational entities), processes, and exploitation that can be leveraged to
procedures are maintained and used to overcome barriers. (TECHNOLOGY)
manage protection of information
systems and assets.
Maintenance (PR.MA): Maintenance Operational: Implementing the
and repairs of industrial control and Framework does not ensure that it is being
information system components is followed through as part of the business
performed consistent with policies and model. Enterprises should seek to align the
procedures. Framework with on-going operations
wherever possible. (OPERATIONAL)
Protective Technology (PR.PT): Operational: Usage can be monitored, but
Technical security solutions are it can be very difficult to understand the
managed to ensure the security and effect. Using the NIST Framework Tier
resilience of systems and assets, position analysis, organizations can
consistent with related policies, prioritize security measures.
procedures, and agreements. (OPERATIONAL)
3) Detect Function
Relevant Categories: Primary Barrier:
Anomalies and Events (DE.AE): Operational: Difficult to determine the
Anomalous activity is detected in a impact in real‐time. Enterprises should
timely manner and the potential seek to align the Framework with on‐going
impact of events is understood. operations wherever possible.
(TECHNOLOGY)
211The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Security Continuous Monitoring Operational: Companies are not actively
(DE.CM): The information system monitoring all employee activity.
and assets are monitored at discrete Implementing would require additional
intervals to identify cybersecurity investments. Using the NIST Tier position
events and verify the effectiveness of analysis, organizations can prioritize
protective measures. security measures. (OPERATIONAL)
Detection Processes (DE.DP): Financial: There will be an additional
Detection processes and procedures CAPEX cost to procuring SIEM / IPS / IDS
are maintained and tested to ensure technologies and systems.
timely and adequate awareness of There will be an additional OPEX cost to
anomalous events. allocate, hire, train staff to be responsible
for SIEM / IPS / IDS technologies and
systems.
4) Respond Function
Relevant Categories: Primary Barrier:
Response Planning (RS.RP): Response
process and procedures are executed Financial: Additional CAPEX and OPEX cost
and maintained, to ensure timely to procuring BC and DR technologies and
response to detected cybersecurity systems and training staff to recover
events. systems and data, in order to return the
organization back to normal business
operations.
Communications (RS.CO): Response Legal/Policy: Liability concerns could limit
activities are coordinated with voluntary information sharing. Liability
internal and external stakeholders, as Protection via CISPA and other Bills, as well
appropriate, to include external as liability protection from self‐audit, should
support from law enforcement mitigate this barrier. (LEGAL/POLICY)
agencies.
Analysis (RS.AN): Analysis is Operational: Lack of internal cyber security
conducted to ensure adequate expertise in the areas of investigation /
response and support recovery security analysis / forensics / incident
212The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
activities. response / and specialized technologies will
hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are Financial: The hacker/attacker community
performed to prevent expansion of has an endless capacity to advance their
an event, mitigate its effects, and missions, methods and attack technologies.
eradicate the incident. Organizations are left to often times guess a
hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of
attack costing them time and money
Improvements (RS.IM): Financial: Numerous False alarms, lack of
Organizational response activities are dedicated security staff, lack of staff
improved by incorporating lessons availability, lack of budget all could affect
learned from current and previous the organizations ability to keep their
detection/response activities. response strategies up to date.
5) Recover Function
Relevant Categories: Primary Barrier:
Recovery Planning (RC.RP): Recovery Financial: There will be an additional CAPEX
processes and procedures are cost to procuring DR technologies and off‐
executed and maintained to ensure site services like storage and data recovery.
timely restoration of systems or There will be an additional OPEX cost to
assets affected by cybersecurity allocate, hire, train staff to be responsible
events. for Business Continuity and Disaster
Recovery
Improvements (RC.IM): Recovery Operational: Lack of BC/DR Plans will hinder
planning and processes are improved an effective recovery from an attack, breach
by incorporating lessons learned into or loss of data.
future activities.
Communications (RC.CO): Operational: Some staff, executives,
Restoration activities are coordinated shareholders and board members may
with internal and external parties, disagree with the content and delivery time
such as coordinating centers, Internet of press releases and official notifications.
Service Providers, owners of attacking
systems, victims, other CSIRTs, and
vendors.
213The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IV. Conclusions and Recommendations
There is currently a large and growing set of independent research, which has consistently
shown that the primary problem with respect to securing critical infrastructure is economic.
Sources as varied as PWC, McAfee/Intel, CIO Magazine, and the Center for Strategic and
International Studies (CSIS).
As a general matter, mitigating some of the costs involved with voluntary adoption of the
Framework will increase awareness and overall implementation, particularly for small‐to‐
medium enterprises. Therefore, the barriers feeder group recommends that the federal
government resume the work on incentives that was initiated by four government agencies–
U.S. Departments of the Treasury, Commerce, and Homeland Security, and a General Services
Administration (GSA)/Department of Defense (DOD) joint effort– that was called‐for in EO
13636.
Even relatively homogenous critical infrastructure sectors, such as the Communications Sector,
often have substantial differences at the individual enterprise level. Incentives may need to be
applied at the corporate level to be effective, and only each individual corporate entity would
be in a position to evaluate what policies and incentives work best for them. Therefore, a menu
of market incentives available for corporations that elect voluntary adoption of effective
standards and practices would best drive further adoption of the Framework.
The barriers feeder group suggests the FCC consider, and advocate for the federal government
at‐large to develop a set of economic incentives that will further Framework adoption.
214The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. Appendix
Informative
Function Category Subcategory
References
Operational Requirement(s):
Appropriate and adequate Operations staff may be assigned to locate, track,
count, and document all critical infrastructure network hardware, computing
systems, physical machines, virtual machines, virtual and physical network
circuits, staff devices, mobile devices, receivers, transmitters, antennas,
optical systems, transportation systems and any system or device that has
Asset computing, storage and network connectivity functions. * Additional
Management levels of staff trust and training may be established for this requirement.
(ID.AM): The data,
personnel, devices,
Technology Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 1
systems, and
Operations staff assigned to inventory critical infrastructure network devices ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
facilities that
and systems may need easy to operate database software and technologies 1:2009 4.2.3.4
enable the
that can automate, scale and report on the adding and removing of ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
organization to ID.AM‐1: Physical
networked resources that are inventoried. This automated system should 3:2013 SR 7.8
achieve business devices and systems
IDENTIFY detect the presence of unauthorized hardware. * It is highly recommended ∙ COBIT 5 BAI09.01,
purposes are within the
(ID) that computer aided design (CAD) functions, Geographic Information (GIS) BAI09.02
identified and organization are
mapping functions and security functions be included and integrated into ∙ ISO/IEC
managed inventoried
these inventory database technologies. * It is highly recommended that 27001:2013 A.8.1.1,
consistent with
access to this critical network inventory is extremely limited to those with a A.8.1.2
their relative
need‐to‐know basis. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
importance to
Rev. 4 CM‐8
business objectives
and the Barriers:
organization’s risk
When professional staff is allocated/assignedto this task, it may cause an
strategy.
increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust should be established and additional levels of
training can take place.
Database software and hardware systems may cause an additional CAPEX
and OPEX cost. It is at the discretion of the technical management and staff
to determine if existing hardware resources can be shared/used or if new
hardware resources need to be purchased and administered.
215The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
Appropriate and adequate Operations staff should be assigned to locate,
track, count, and document all network critical infrastructure software,
critical applications, OSS software, (i.e.; Billing & Customer Account DBs),
network/customer databases, mobile employee supporting systems, and
stored information that is critical to the operations of the organization. *
Additional levels of staff trust and training may be established for this
requirement.
∙ CCS CSC 2
Technology Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
Operations staff assigned to inventory network critical software may useeasy BAI09.01, BAI09.02,
to operate database software and technologies that can automate, scale and BAI09.05
ID.AM‐2: Software report on the adding and removing of network software resources that are ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
platforms and inventoried. This automated system can detect the presence of unauthorized 1:2009 4.2.3.4
applications within software, databases and applications. * It is highly recommended that ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
the organization are software licenses, GNU‐Open source software, software additions/deletions, 3:2013 SR 7.8
inventoried and software version control be included in the software inventory database ∙ ISO/IEC
system. * This software inventory system should be made secure to prevent 27001:2013 A.8.1.1,
corruption of critical network functions, to prevent theft of software and to A.8.1.2
prevent fraudulent actions. * It is highly recommended that access to this ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
software inventory is extremely limited to those with a need‐to‐know basis. Rev. 4 CM‐8
Barriers:
Professional staff should be allocated/assigned to this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Database software and hardware systems may cause an additional CAPEX
and OPEX cost. It is at the discretion of the technical management and staff
to determine if existing hardware resources can be shared/used or if new
hardware resources need to be purchased and administered.
ID.AM‐3: Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 1
216The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Organizational The organization can determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" ∙ COBIT 5
communication and information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The DSS05.02
data flows are organization can take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
mapped I,II,III of operations, network ops centers, engineering, technical 1:2009 4.2.3.4
management, program/project management, customer service, IT, sales, C‐ ∙ ISO/IEC
suite officials, billing, accounting, human resources, security offices etc. * 27001:2013
Once these communication paths and flows have been determined the A.13.2.1
organization can set access controls‐ business process rules within various ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information, Rev. 4 AC‐4, CA‐3,
when they need it to perform their job function. * The entire flow of CA‐9, PL‐8
information that describes who‐what‐when‐how can be documented and
conveyed through ongoing training, to the effected personnel.
When organizations determine "who‐externally" needs to know "what"
information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The
organization can take into account "all" external communications with:
vendors/suppliers, emergency responders, government officials, peers,
customers, public facing websites, customer portals, contact centers, legal
entities, , service providers, executive communications, billing interfaces,
eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. * Once these
communication paths and flows have been determined the organization can
set access controls‐ business process rules within various systems to allow
authorized personnel to reach their required information, when they need it
to perform their job function. * The entire flow of information that describes
who‐what‐when‐how can be documented and conveyed through ongoing
training, to the effected personnel. * Organizations may develop a policy
for connecting to external information systems and prohibit, where
necessary, the direct connection to a public network. * Organization can
develop a baseline security compliance policy for all external components
connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones, printers, laptops,
etc.) Additionally the process may maintain a tracking and audit mechanism.
Technology Requirement(s):
217The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems can all have the scheduling,
credentials of access, business process rules, and security controls built into
them, such that personnel and authorized external entities can access the
correct information in a timely manner according to the documented
communications flow. * Security policy filters can be in place that monitors
file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where this data may
flow through the information system based upon specified attributes. * The
system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐wide information
security architecture. This may include using products that subscribe to your
security safeguards from a diverse group of suppliers.
Barriers:
Mapping an organization's communications flow will require assigning and
allocating staff (that may be assigned to other functions), to document this
flow and to keep it updated with business and personnel changes.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational staff can identify, inventory, track and update the catalog of
externally facing critical infrastructure systems, databases, web servers,
virtual machines, virtual/physical circuits, networks, VPNs, VLANs, WANs,
communications channels, email systems, phone/UC systems, calendars,
∙ COBIT 5
applications, web portals, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employee
APO02.02
devices, cloud‐data center resources and any other hardware and software
∙ ISO/IEC
that is used to communicate with "outside" entities. Outside entities include
ID.AM‐4: External 27001:2013
but not limited to: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders, government
information systems A.11.2.6
officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer portals, contact
are catalogued ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing interfaces,
Rev. 4 AC‐20, SA‐9
eCommerce interfaces, mobile employee support, cloud‐data centers etc. *
Organization can establish terms and conditions, consistent with any trust
relationships established with other organizations owning, operating, and/or
maintaining external information systems. * Organization can develop rules
for external providers to comply with and employ measures to monitor
security control compliance.
218The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
Organizational staff assigned to catalog externally facing critical
infrastructure information systems, servers, virtual machines, software,
networks and resources can use easy to operate database software and
technologies that can scale and report on the externally facing resources that
are inventoried. This externally facing catalog system can be made secure to
prevent corruption of critical network functions, to prevent theft of
services/software and to prevent fraudulent actions. It is highly
recommended that access to this external system catalog is extremely
limited to those with a need‐to‐know basis.
Barriers:
The Operational requirements to catalog externally facing critical
infrastructure information systems, software, networks and resources will
require assigning and allocating staff (that may be assigned to other
functions), to document this catalog and to keep it updated with business
and personnel changes.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff may determine
the primary‐critical infrastructure functions and services that make the
organization operate as an ongoing concern. They consider questions: "If we ∙ COBIT 5
lost <function>, can we continue to operate our business and business APO03.03,
ID.AM‐5: Resources
plan(s)?" An example of this exercise may be similar to: "If we lost our APO03.04, BAI09.02
(e.g., hardware,
<website>, could we still deliver services to our customers?" * Once this ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
devices, data, and
team has answered the questions for every function that is performed in the 1:2009 4.2.3.6
software) are
organization, then every function can be prioritized based on criticality and ∙ ISO/IEC
prioritized based on
business value. * Once these critical functions are prioritized, then the 27001:2013 A.8.2.1
their classification,
systems, applications, networks, storage, databases, and technical resources ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
criticality, and
that support these highest priority functions can be identified and prioritized Rev. 4 CP‐2, RA‐2,
business value
as well, based on their criticality and business value. * An organization may SA‐14
identify the critical information system components and their functions for
developing an impact analysis in the case of failure.
Technology Requirement(s):
219The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Once the highest priority functions and their corresponding supporting
technical resources are prioritized, it is imperative that spare equipment,
circuit boards, parts, fuel, circuits, servers, and anything physical and
technical that can minimize outages and downtime of critical systems, be
procured. These critical spares should be stored where operational staff can
quickly access and install in order to minimize any outages or downtime of
critical systems.
Barriers:
*The Operational requirements to prioritize critical functions and critical
systems and resources will require assigning and allocating staff (that may be
assigned to other functions), to document this prioritization and to keep it
updated with business and personnel changes.
*There will be a CAPEX cost of procuring critical spares, and there will be an
OPEX cost to obtaining adequate storage space for and maintaining
environmental conditions for critical spares.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine
who (by job function) needs to know what information within the entire
organization. Following this exercise, various levels of cybersecurity
responsibilities and leadership can be assigned. These levels of cybersecurity ∙ COBIT 5
ID.AM‐6: responsibilities will include but not limited to: Security of entire APO01.02,
Cybersecurity roles infrastructure, security of groups of DSS06.03
and responsibilities systems/applications/databseses/SW/devices, security of individual ∙ ISO/IEC
for the entire systems/applications/databseses/SW/devices, as well as security of internal 27001:2013 A.6.1.1
workforce and third‐ and external communications channels. The cybersecurity leadership can ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
party stakeholders then develop cybersecurity policies and procedures, then train the 1:2009 4.3.2.3.3
(e.g., suppliers, appropriate staff of these cybersecurity procedures. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
customers, partners) Rev. 4 CP‐2, PS‐7,
are established PM‐11
Technology Requirement(s):
Documented roles and responsibilities can be stored and accessible, where
all of the organization's staff can read, download and print.
Barriers:
220The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
*The Operational requirements to assign cybersecurity leadership and
responsibilities may require the additional cost of hiring specialized
personnel and/or assigning cybersecurity responsibilities to staff (that may
be assigned to other functions). These cybersecurity responsibilities, policies
and procedures will constantly need updating to keep pace with business
changes, evolving security climates and personnel changes.
* The roles and responsibilities will need buy‐in, approval from all levels of
leadership, including the executive levels of the organization.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine
how the organization fits into a supply chain ecosystem. The following
questions can be answered: Is the organization a producer, a consumer, both,
or something that has yet to be defined? Does the organization turn raw
Business materials into a product? Does the organization provide a service where
Environment human resources and expertise is the main ingredient for business ∙ COBIT 5
(ID.BE): The operations? Is the organization in the middle of a larger supply chain APO08.04,
organization’s ecosystem? How does the organization earn revenue from it's customers? APO08.05,
mission, objectives, How does the sales function get what it needs to sell a product or service to APO10.03,
stakeholders, and customers? * The organization should understand and communicate its APO10.04,
ID.BE‐1: The
activities are role, responsibilities and criticality within a supply chain ecosystem to its APO10.05
organization’s role in
understood and entire staff. * The sub‐organizations that are deemed critical to operating ∙ ISO/IEC
the supply chain is
prioritized; this the business must be prioritized such that key decision makers are very 27001:2013
identified and
information is used aware of their responsibilities and available human and physical resources. A.15.1.3, A.15.2.1,
communicated
to inform This sub‐organization prioritization can also be conveyed to the entire staff in A.15.2.2
cybersecurity roles, such a way that every person know whom (internally and externally) to take ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
responsibilities, direction from. * Once the organizational prioritization exercise is Rev. 4 CP‐2, SA‐12
and risk completed, the critical dependencies of all sub‐organizations and outside
management external sources can be identified, such that the transfer of information and
decisions. resources can be prioritized as well, both internally and externally to the
main organization. * Organizations can develop a system to validate that
supplies are genuine; reviewing the supplier processes before engaging in
business.
Technology Requirement(s):
221The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Once the supply chain roles and responsibilitiesare identified, conveyed and
in place, the key information that can transfer between various sub‐
organizations, organizations, and its external sources can be developed,
enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business
communications requirements within a supply chain ecosystem. The critical
networks, protocols, web services, forms, emails, VPNs, VLANs, WANs,
databases, web portals that can transfer critical information between various
sub‐organizations, organizations, and it's external sources can be developed,
enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business requirements
within a supply chain ecosystem. * This technical architecture supporting an
organization's role in the supply ecosystem can also be conveyed to the
appropriate technical, operations and leadership staff.
Barriers:
The organization or itsexternal interfacing partners may not agree on the
critical functions or priority. If a downstream entity is not secure or doesn't
maintain a certain level of quality, it could make an upstream entity
vulnerable unintentionally if they both do not agree on criticality and priority
of their respective functions.
The roles and responsibilities will need buy‐in, approval from all levels of the
supply chain, including their executive levels of their organizations.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff may determine
how the organization fits into a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem. The
following questions can be answered: Does this organization supply a product
ID.BE‐2: The or service to critical infrastructure that supports the functioning of our society
organization’s place or economy? Does this organization supply a product or service to the ∙ COBIT 5
in critical government to support the security of our society or economy? * The APO02.06,
infrastructure and its organization should understand and communicate its role, responsibilities APO03.01
industry sector is and criticality within a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem to its entire staff. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
identified and The sub‐organizations that are deemed critical to operating the business can Rev. 4 PM‐8
communicated be prioritized such that key decision makers are very aware of their
responsibilities and available human and physical resources. This sub‐
organization prioritization can also be conveyed to the entire staff in such a
way that every person know whom (internally and externally) to take
direction from. * Once the organizational prioritization exercise is
222The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
completed, the critical dependencies of all sub‐organizations and outside
external sources can be identified, such that the transfer of information and
resources can be prioritized as well, both internally and externally to the
main organization. * Organizations may address information security issues
within the Critical Infrastructure Protection Plan (CIPP) that may be required
by federal laws, policies, and regulations.
Technology Requirement(s):
Once the Critical Infrastructureroles and responsibilities are identified,
conveyed and in place, the key information that can transfer between
various sub‐organizations, organizations, and its external sources can be
developed, enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business
communications requirements within a supply chain ecosystem. The critical
networks, protocols, web services, forms, emails, VPNs, VLANs, WANs,
databases, web portals that can transfer critical information between various
sub‐organizations, organizations, and it's external sources can be developed,
enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business requirements
within a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem. This technical architecture
supporting an organization's role in the Critical Infrastructure ecosystem can
also be conveyed to the appropriate technical, operations and leadership
staff.
Barriers:
The organization or itsexternal interfacing partners may not agree on the
organization's criticality or priority within the critical infrastructure
ecosystem. If a downstream entity is not secure or doesn't maintain a certain
level of quality, it could make an upstream entity vulnerable unintentionally,
resulting in an undesirable compromise and mitigation strategies may have
to be devised and implemented to compensate.
223The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine
the organization's mission and its primary business objectives as an ongoing
concern. The sub‐organizations that are deemed critical to operating the
business can be prioritized such that key decision makers are very aware of
their responsibilities and available human and physical resources. * This
sub‐organization prioritization can also be conveyed to the entire staff in
such a way that every person know whom (internally and externally) to take
∙ COBIT 5
direction from. * Once the organizational prioritization exercise is
APO02.01,
completed, the critical dependencies of all sub‐organizations and outside
APO02.06,
ID.BE‐3: Priorities for external sources can be identified, such that the transfer of information and
APO03.01
organizational resources can be prioritized as well, both internally and externally to the
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
mission, objectives, main organization. An organization can identify the critical information
1:2009 4.2.2.1,
and activities are system components and their functions for developing an impact analysis in
4.2.3.6
established and the case of failure.
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
communicated
Rev. 4 PM‐11, SA‐
Technology Requirement(s): 14
None
Barriers:
* The organization and/or its leadership may find difficulty and challenges to
overcome in obtaining full buy‐in to its mission, objectives and subsequent
policies and procedures.
*
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine ∙ ISO/IEC
critical functions for delivery of critical services. * Then they can 27001:2013
ID.BE‐4:
determine what resources, products, services, and materials that are critical A.11.2.2, A.11.2.3,
Dependencies and
and required and that they depend upon obtaining from 3rd party entities. A.12.1.3
critical functions for
An example would be similar to a telecom network operator who depends on ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
delivery of critical
a diesel fuel supplier to bring fuel to a network node site or data center as Rev. 4 CP‐8, PE‐9,
services are
often as required during the loss of commercial power, so the telecom PE‐11, PM‐8, SA‐14
established
network operator can keep its critical network systems operating on back‐up
generator power. * Dependencies supporting critical functions can include
but not limited to: diesel fuel, alternate sources of electricity, alternate and
224The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
redundant communications service providers, spare components, emergency
responders, vendor‐crisis response teams and equipment, government
agencies etc.
Technology Requirement(s):
Primary, secondary and tertiary communications systems and techniques can
be implemented, so that the organization can reach its critically dependent
3rd party entities in an emergency and/or crisis situation. These modes of
communication include but limited to telephony, VoIP, IM, Video conference,
Internet/Email, Text/SMS and possibly Social media as modes of critical
communications.
Barriers:
The organization may incur additional expenses implementing the various
modes of redundant communications. The organization may incur expenses
develop emergency communications procedures and to train personnel on
how to use them.
The identified 3rd party entities that organizations depend uponmay have
additional obligations or different priorities, such that they may not meet the
organization's expectations as rapidly as required in the event of an
emergency or crisis.
Operational Requirement(s):
∙ COBIT 5
Once the organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff has
DSS04.02
determined critical functions for delivery of critical services. Then they can
ID.BE‐5: Resilience ∙ ISO/IEC
determine redundant, sometimes duplicative methods for delivery of critical
requirements to 27001:2013
components, supplies and materials. This may include but not limited to
support delivery of A.11.1.4, A.17.1.1,
redundant circuits for communications, alternate secondary suppliers of fuel,
critical services are A.17.1.2, A.17.2.1
secondary suppliers of critical components, secondary shipping and delivery
established ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
providers, alternate means of communicating with government officials and
Rev. 4 CP‐2, CP‐11,
first responders. * An organization may develop a contingency plan that
SA‐14
outlines the process for restoring information systems, and implements an
225The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
alternative processes in the interim. This could include a plan that identifies
critical assets, alternate processing/storage site, and coordinates with
external service providers.
Technology Requirement(s):
Primary, secondary and tertiary communications systems and techniques can
be implemented, so that the organization can reach its critically dependent
3rd party entities in an emergency and/or crisis situation. These modes of
communication include but limited to telephony, VoIP, IM, Video conference,
Internet/Email, Text/SMS, and possibly Social media as a last resort of critical
communications. All of these modes of communications can be made as
secure as practically possible and include authentication functions.
Barriers:
The organization may incur additional expenses implementing the various
modes of redundant communications. The organization may incur expenses
develop emergency communications procedures and to train personnel on
how to use them.
The identified 3rd party entities that organizations depend uponmay have
additional obligations or different priorities, such that they may not meet the
organization's expectations as rapidly as required in the event of an
emergency or crisis.
Governance ID.GV‐1: Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
226The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
(ID.GV): The Organizational An organization's executive and technical leadership can determine which APO01.03,
policies, information security information and data types that can be protected from threats. Critical EDM01.01,
procedures, and policy is established financial and technical data may be protected and secured from EDM01.02
processes to unauthorized access and can address privacy considerations. Other types of ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
manage and information may be allowed to reach certain people on a need‐to‐know 1:2009 4.3.2.6
monitor the basis, in order to perform their jobs. * While some less‐critical types of ∙ ISO/IEC
organization’s information may be allowed to reach the public or the media. Once these 27001:2013 A.5.1.1
regulatory, legal, levels of information are determined, the amount of security and security ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
risk, controls applied to each information type can be determined. * From Rev. 4 ‐1 controls
environmental, and here, an organization can produce a set of security policies that protects from all families
operational critical organizational information. Once the information security policies are
requirements are established, these policies can be conveyed to the appropriate levels of
understood and staffing, and external entities such that everyone knows their responsibilities
inform the in protecting various types of information.
management of
cybersecurity risk.
Technology Requirement(s):
Documented Security policy, along with roles and responsibilities can be
stored and accessible, where all of the organization's staff can read,
download and print.
Barriers:
There may be disagreement and efforts to reconcile within organization as
what level of protection is required for each data type and there may be
disagreement on access control that dictates whom shall have access to what
data.
Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
ID.GV‐2: Information Once the information security policies are established within an organization, APO13.12
security roles & these policies can be conveyed to the appropriate levels of executives, ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
responsibilities are management, and staffing, such that everyone knows their responsibilities in 1:2009 4.3.2.3.3
coordinated and protecting various types of information. External policies and procedures for ∙ ISO/IEC
aligned with internal protecting information can also be developed. These externally facing 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
roles and external information security policies and procedures can also be strongly conveyed A.7.2.1
partners to external suppliers, partners, peers and 3rd party entities that support the ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
organization. Rev. 4 PM‐1, PS‐7
227The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
The identified 3rd party entities that organizations depend upon, may have
additional obligations or different priorities, such that they may not meet the
organization's information security requirements and policies as thoroughly
as desired by the organization.
There may be disagreement and efforts to reconcile within organization as to
what level of protection is required for each data type and there may be
disagreement on access control that dictates whom shall have access to what
data.
Operational Requirement(s):
An organization's executive and technical leadership can include the
organization's legal counsel and/or legal staff in the development of
cybersecurity and information protection policies. They can ensure that these
new cybersecurity and information protection policies conform to and do not
violate privacy laws and civil liberties obligations. Once the legal details of the
∙ COBIT 5
ID.GV‐3: Legal and cybersecurity and information protection policies are established, they can
MEA03.01,
regulatory be conveyed to the entire organization's staff. Staff confirmation and possibly
MEA03.04
requirements acceptance of these cybersecurity and information protection policies may
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
regarding need to be obtained. Non‐acceptance by certain individuals, may dictate
1:2009 4.4.3.7
cybersecurity, what responsibilities are assigned to them.
∙ ISO/IEC
including privacy and
27001:2013 A.18.1
civil liberties
Technology Requirement(s): ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
obligations, are
None Rev. 4 ‐1 controls
understood and
from all families
managed
(except PM‐1)
Barriers:
Some 'desired' cybersecurity and information protection requirements may
conflict with the legal rights of individuals employed by the organization.
Staff confirmation and possibly acceptance of these cybersecurity and
information protection policies may need to be obtained. Non‐acceptance by
228The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
certain individuals, may dictate what responsibilities are assigned to them.
Operational Requirement(s):
Once an organization creates an ongoing Threats/Risk catalog, they may
progress to developing the appropriate cyber risk management responses by
all of the sub‐organizations that play a role of managing and responding to
these risks. These appropriate responses, may include, but not be limited to
the 5 phases of emergency management; Prevention, Mitigation,
Preparedness, Response, and Recovery. The appropriate responses may
describe "Who does What, and When" for every identified risk in the risk
catalog. These responses can include every sub‐organization from the top ∙ COBIT 5
executives all the way through to the most remote member of an DSS04.02
ID.GV‐4: Governance organization. ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
and risk 1:2009 4.2.3.1,
management 4.2.3.3, 4.2.3.8,
Technology Requirement(s):
processes address 4.2.3.9, 4.2.3.11,
cybersecurity risks Documented Security policy along with roles and responsibilities may be 4.3.2.4.3, 4.3.2.6.3
stored and accessible, where all of the organization's staff can read, ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
download and print. Rev. 4 PM‐9, PM‐11
Barriers:
There may be disagreement and efforts to reconcile within theorganization
as to what level of protection is required for each data type and there may be
disagreement on access control that dictates whom shall have access to what
data.
Risk Assessment ID.RA‐1: Asset Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 4
229The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
(ID.RA): The vulnerabilities are Technical staff may research publicly available information and vendor ∙ COBIT 5
organization identified and proprietary information to learn of all of the publicly‐known vulnerabilities of APO12.01,
understands the documented the critical hardware, software, database and network resources of an APO12.02,
cybersecurity risk organization. The technical staff may also research cyber‐criminal elements APO12.03,
to organizational for vulnerabilities that are not public or known by the vendors. Once APO12.04
operations documented and key organizational decision makers can be alerted. ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
(including mission, Technical staff may subscribe to websites and news boards that exist for the 1:2009 4.2.3,
functions, image, sole purpose of spreading details of found technical vulnerabilities over the 4.2.3.7, 4.2.3.9,
or reputation), Internet. An organization may outline what systems should be monitored, 4.2.3.12
organizational the frequency at which to monitor them, perform security assessments of ∙ ISO/IEC
assets, and these systems, and report all findings. An organization can conduct an 27001:2013
individuals. assessment of risk by taking into account the magnitude of harm caused A.12.6.1, A.18.2.3
from the breach of the information system. This includes taking into account ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
the threats, vulnerabilities, likelihood, and impact to organizational Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
operations and assets. etc. This assessment would also include risk from CA‐8, RA‐3, RA‐5,
external parties. Create a patch and vulnerability group (PVG) who are tasked SA‐5, SA‐11, SI‐2, SI‐
with the job of implementing the vulnerability management program. The 4, SI‐5
organization may develop a system to receive info. about security alerts,
advisories, and directives. Also, develop a system that disseminates internal
security alerts, advisories, and directives.
Technology Requirement(s):
When organizations perform penetration testing using a reliable set of
penetration test technologies testing along with pretest analysis on the
target system, in order to identify vulnerabilities based upon this analysis,
and design testing to try and exploit vulnerability. An organization may
employ vulnerability scanning tools that include the capability to readily
detect new vulnerabilities. An organization may look to external expertise to
perform independent testing of critical infrastructure under the appropriate
and relevant service level and security agreements.
Barriers:
*Professional staff can be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust can be established and additional levels of training
can take place.
230The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
* The vendors may not accept found vulnerabilities, or they may not fix/solve
their vulnerabilities before the organization is compromised by an attack of
discovered vulnerabilities.
* Researching for vulnerabilities may lead various staff members to access
illegal or criminally backed websites, possibly violating cybersecurity and
information protection policies.
Operational Requirement(s):
Technical staff may research publicly available information and vendor
proprietary information to learn of all of the publicly‐known vulnerabilities of
the critical hardware, software, database and network resources of an
organization. * The technical staff may also research cyber‐criminal
elements for vulnerabilities that are not public or known by the vendors. All
of these vulnerabilities can be documented and key organizational decision
makers can be alerted. Technical staff should subscribe to websites and news
boards that exist for the sole purpose of spreading details of found technical
vulnerabilities over the Internet. * An organization may outline what
systems should be monitored, the frequency at which to monitor them,
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
perform security assessments of these systems, and report all findings. An
ID.RA‐2: Threat and 1:2009 4.2.3,
organization may conduct an assessment of risk by taking into account the
vulnerability 4.2.3.9, 4.2.3.12
magnitude of harm caused from the breach of the information system. This
information is ∙ ISO/IEC
includes taking into account the threats, vulnerabilities, likelihood, and
received from 27001:2013 A.6.1.4
impact to organizational operations and assets. etc. This assessment would
information sharing ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
also include risk from external parties. * Create a patch and vulnerability
forums and sources Rev. 4 PM‐15, PM‐
group (PVG) who are tasked with the job of implementing the vulnerability
16, SI‐5
management program. The organization may develop a system to receive
info. about security alerts, advisories, and directives. Also, develop a system
that disseminates internal security alerts, advisories, and directives. * The
organization establishes and institutionalizes contact with selected groups
and associations within the cyber security community. * The organization
implements a threat awareness program that includes a cross‐organization
information‐sharing capability. * The organization implements an insider
threat program that includes a cross‐discipline insider threat incident
handling team.
Technology Requirement(s):
231The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The organization can implement automated information feeds from external
sources, like RSS, Message Boards, Twitter, Google "Search" filters etc., and
any other means of receiving electronic updates on new cyber threats and
attacks. These automated information feeds may include new information on
equipment, software, databases, web applications and open‐source software
that the organization has in in place. * The organization can also implement
an internal reporting policy and process, so employees can anonymously
report suspicious activities. * Once these new threats and vulnerabilities
are received, the organization can document and distribute to the
appropriate personnel in a timely manner, so that decision makers can
choose to take action.
Barriers:
The chosen sources,to which threats and vulnerabilities can be drawn from,
may violate the organization cybersecurity policies and procedures. The
organization should use extreme caution and ensure that these sources do
not connect directly to critical networks and systems. They should be used as
information sources only.
Professional staff may be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause an
increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust may be established and additional levels of training
can take place.
ID.RA‐3: Threats, Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
232The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
both internal and Technical staff may research publicly available information and vendor APO12.01,
external, are proprietary information to learn of all of the publicly‐known vulnerabilities of APO12.02,
identified and the critical hardware, software, database and network resources of an APO12.03,
documented organization. * The technical staff may also research cyber‐criminal APO12.04
elements for vulnerabilities that are not public or known by the vendors. All ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
of these vulnerabilities should be documented and key organizational 1:2009 4.2.3,
decision makers can be alerted. Technical staff should subscribe to websites 4.2.3.9, 4.2.3.12
and news boards that exist for the sole purpose of spreading details of found ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
technical vulnerabilities over the Internet. * An organization should outline Rev. 4 RA‐3, SI‐5,
what systems should be monitored, the frequency at which to monitor them, PM‐12, PM‐16
perform security assessments of these systems, and report all findings. An
organization may conduct an assessment of risk by taking into account the
magnitude of harm caused from the breach of the information system. This
includes taking into account the threats, vulnerabilities, likelihood, and
impact to organizational operations and assets. etc. This assessment would
also include risk from external parties. * Create a patch and vulnerability
group (PVG) who are tasked with the job of implementing the vulnerability
management program. The organization should develop a system to receive
info. about security alerts, advisories, and directives. Also, develop a system
that disseminates internal security alerts, advisories, and directives. * The
organization establishes and institutionalizes contact with selected groups
and associations within the cyber security community. * The organization
implements a threat awareness program that includes a cross‐organization
information‐sharing capability. * The organization implements an insider
threat program that includes a cross‐discipline insider threat incident
handling team.
Technology Requirement(s):
The organization may implement automated information feeds from external
sources, like RSS, Message Boards, Twitter, Google "Search" filters etc., and
any other means of receiving electronic updates on new cyber threats and
attacks. These automated information feeds may include new information on
equipment, software, databases, web applications and open‐source software
that the organization has in in place. * The organization can also implement
an internal reporting policy and process, so employees can anonymously
report suspicious activities. * Once these new threats and vulnerabilities
are received, the organization can document and distribute to the
233The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
appropriate personnel in a timely manner, so that decisionmakers can
choose to take action.
Barriers:
Professional staff should be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust can be established and additional levels of training
can take place.
Researching for vulnerabilitiesmay lead various staff members to access
illegal or criminally backed websites, possibly violating cybersecurity and
information protection policies.
The chosen sources,to which threats and vulnerabilities can be drawnfrom,
may violate the organization cybersecurity policies and procedures. The
organization should use extreme caution and ensure that these sources do
not connect directly to critical networks and systems. They should be used as
information sources only.
ID.RA‐4: Potential Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
234The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
business impacts and Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff may determine DSS04.02
likelihoods are the primary‐critical functions and services that make the organization ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
identified operate as an ongoing concern. They can ask the questions: "If we lost 1:2009 4.2.3,
<function>, can we continue to operate our business and business plan(s)?" 4.2.3.9, 4.2.3.12
An example of this exercise may be similar to: "If we lost our <website>, ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
could we still deliver services to our customers?" * Once this team has Rev. 4 RA‐2, RA‐3,
answered the questions for every function that is performed in the PM‐9, PM‐11, SA‐14
organization, then every function can be prioritized based on criticality and
business value. Once these critical functions are prioritized, then the systems,
applications, networks, storage, databases, and technical resources that
support these highest priority functions can be identified and prioritized as
well, based on their criticality and business value. * An organization
identifies the critical information system components and their functions for
developing an impact analysis in the case of failure. * An organization can
identify the critical information system components and their functions for
developing an impact analysis in the case of failure. Organizational
leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine critical functions
for delivery of critical services. * Then they can determine what resources,
products, services, and materials that are critical and required and that they
depend upon obtaining from 3rd party entities. An example would be similar
to a telecom network operator who depends on a diesel fuel supplier to bring
fuel to a network node site or data center as often as required during the loss
of commercial power, so the telecom network operator can keep its critical
network systems operating on back‐up generator power. Dependencies
supporting critical functions can include but not limited to: diesel fuel,
alternate sources of electricity, alternate and redundant communications
service providers, spare components, emergency responders, vendor‐crisis
response teams and equipment, government agencies etc.
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
The organization and/or its leadership may find difficulty and a challenge to
overcome in obtaining full buy‐in to the identified business impacts,
likelihoods and critical systems and resources.
235The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization may build a list, chart or table to identify threats and
vulnerabilities to the critical business functions, their systems, their networks
and their software. * Organizations can also determine if these threats
and vulnerabilities increase or decrease risk occurrences. An example would
list network, hardware, and software resources you need to accomplish a
business task. * Then, in a second column, list the threats associated with
each resource. In a third column, list/describe the consequences of each
threat. Once this threat information is established, the organization can
prioritize the criticality of each risk to the business operations and the
urgency and time required to respond. * The organization may categorize
and prioritize these risks, so decision makers can take appropriate and
efficient action. An example, organizations often develop plans to respond to
physical threats, such as malicious access to buildings or equipment, and ∙ COBIT 5
electronic threats, such as cyber‐attacks trying to access sales data or APO12.02
ID.RA‐5: Threats,
computer viruses, worms or other infections, and technical failures, such as ∙ ISO/IEC
vulnerabilities,
equipment failures or unexpected downtime due to power interruptions. The 27001:2013
likelihoods, and
list of threats and vulnerabilities can also include human error. Mistakes A.12.6.1
impacts are used to
could cause catastrophic data loss. * Create a risk catalog document, which ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
determine risk
acts as a permanent record of concerns. Use the risk catalog as a checklist to Rev. 4 RA‐2, RA‐3,
review risks on a regular on‐going basis. PM‐16
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
The organization and/or its leadership may find difficulty obtaining full buy‐in
to the identified business impacts, likelihoods and critical systems and
resources.
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
236The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
Once an organization creates an ongoing Threats/Risk catalog, they may
progress to developing the appropriate cyber risk management responses by
all of the sub‐organizations that play a role of managing and responding to
these risks. These appropriate responses, may include, but not be limited to
the 5 phases of emergency management; PREVENTION, MITIGATION,
PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, and RECOVERY. The appropriate responses may
describe "Who does What, and When" for every identified risk in the risk
∙ COBIT 5
catalog. These responses may include every sub‐organization from the top
ID.RA‐6: Risk APO12.05,
executives all the way through to the most remote member of an
responses are APO13.02
organization.
identified and ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
prioritized Rev. 4 PM‐4, PM‐9
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
There may be disagreement within organization and a need to reconcile as to
what responses are required and by whom.
Operational Requirement(s):
The appropriate cyber risk management responses, may include, but not be
Risk Management limited to the 5 phases of emergency management; PREVENTION,
∙ COBIT 5
Strategy (ID.RM): MITIGATION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, and RECOVERY. The appropriate
ID.RM‐1: Risk APO12.04,
The organization’s responses should describe "Who does What, and When" for every identified
management APO12.05,
priorities, risk in the risk catalog. These responses should include every sub‐
processes are APO13.02,
constraints, risk organization from the top executives all the way through to the most remote
established, BAI02.03, BAI04.02
tolerances, and and junior member of an organization. These responses can also include the
managed, and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
assumptions are timeliness of each response, to include, but not limited to immediate
agreed to by 1:2009 4.3.4.2
established and responses through, timelines needed based on dependencies.
organizational ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
used to support
stakeholders Rev. 4 PM‐9
operational risk
Technology Requirement(s):
decisions.
None
237The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Barriers:
There may be disagreement within organization and a need to reconcile as to
what responses are required and by whom.
There may be OPEX and CAPEX costs associated with implementing the Risk
Management Plans and Processes
Operational Requirement(s):
The appropriate cyber risk management responses, may include, but not be
limited to the 5 phases of emergency management; PREVENTION,
MITIGATION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, and RECOVERY. The appropriate
responses may describe "Who does What, and When" for every identified
risk in the risk catalog. These responses can include every sub‐organization
from the top executives all the way through to the most remote member of
an organization. These responses may also include the timeliness of each
response, to include, but not limited to immediate response through,
timelines needed based on dependencies. * Organizations, sub‐
organizations and all data owners who manage and maintain information ∙ COBIT 5
technology assets may receive comprehensive training on implementing APO12.06
ID.RM‐2:
cybersecurity best practices. * Organization may determine the ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Organizational risk
consequences of various cyber incidents. These consequences should 1:2009 4.3.2.6.5
tolerance is
include, but not limited to impact to supply chain / degradation of public ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
determined and
trust / financial and market losses / degradation of brand reputation / impact Rev. 4 PM‐9
clearly expressed
to critical infrastructure.
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
There may be disagreement within organization and a need to reconcile as to
what responses are required and by whom.
There may be OPEX and CAPEX costs associated with implementing the Risk
Management Plans and Processes
ID.RM‐3: The Operational Requirement(s): ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
238The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
organization’s Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff may determine Rev. 4 PM‐8, PM‐9,
determination of risk how the organization fits into a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem. The PM‐11, SA‐14
tolerance is informed following questions should be answered: Does this organization supply a
by its role in critical product or service to critical infrastructure that supports the functioning of
infrastructure and our society or economy? Does this organization supply a product or service to
sector specific risk the government to support the security of our society or economy? The
analysis organization may understand and communicate its role, responsibilities and
criticality within a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem to its entire staff. The
sub‐organizations that are deemed critical to operating the business can be
prioritized such that key decision makers are very aware of their
responsibilities and available human and physical resources. This sub‐
organization prioritization must also be conveyed to the entire staff in such a
way that every person know whom (internally and externally) to take
direction from. * Once the organizational prioritization exercise is
completed, the critical dependencies of all sub‐organizations and outside
external sources can be identified, such that the transfer of information and
resources can be prioritized as well, both internally and externally to the
main organization. Address information security issues within the Critical
Infrastructure Protection Plan (CIPP) that may be required by federal laws,
policies, and regulations. * The organization can build a list, chart or table
to identify threats and vulnerabilities to their critical infrastructure functions,
their systems, their networks and their software that supports critical
infrastructure. Organizations can also determine if these threats and
vulnerabilities increase or decrease risk occurrences. An example would list
network, hardware, and software resources you need to accomplish a
business task. Then, in a second column, list the threats associated with each
resource. In a third column, list/describe the consequences of each threat.
* Once this threat information is established, the organization can prioritize
the criticality of each risk to the critical infrastructure functions and the
urgency and time required to respond. * The organization can categorize
and prioritize these risks, so decision makers can take appropriate and
efficient action. An example, organizations often develop plans to respond to
physical threats, such as malicious access to buildings or equipment, and
electronic threats, such as cyber‐attacks trying to access sales data or
computer viruses, worms or other infections, and technical failures, such as
equipment failures or unexpected downtime due to power interruptions. The
list of threats and vulnerabilities must also include human error. Mistakes
could cause catastrophic data loss. * Create a risk catalog document,
239The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
which acts as a permanent record of concerns. Use the risk catalog as a
checklist to review risks on a regular on‐going basis.
Technology Requirement(s):
Once the Critical Infrastructureroles and responsibilitiesare identified,
conveyed and in place, the key information that should transfer between
various sub‐organizations, organizations, and its external sources can be
developed, enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business
communications requirements within a supply chain ecosystem. The critical
networks, protocols, web services, forms, emails, VPNs, VLANs, WANs,
databases, web portals that can transfer critical information between various
sub‐organizations, organizations, and it's external sources can be developed,
enhanced, improved or updated to meet the critical business requirements
within a Critical Infrastructure ecosystem. This technical architecture
supporting an organization's role in the Critical Infrastructure ecosystem,
240The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
may also be conveyed to the appropriate technical, operations and
leadership staff.
Barriers:
The organization or itsexternal interfacing partners may not agree on the
organization's criticality or priority within the critical infrastructure
ecosystem. If a downstream entity is not secure or doesn't maintain a certain
level of quality, it could make an upstream entity vulnerable unintentionally,
resulting in an undesirable compromise.
Operational Requirement(s):
∙ CCS CSC 16
The organization can determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what"
∙ COBIT 5
information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The
DSS05.04, DSS06.03
organization can take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers I,
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
II, III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers,
Access Control 1:2009 4.3.3.5.1
engineering, technical management, program/project management,
(PR.AC): Access to ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human
assets and 3:2013 SR 1.1, SR
resources, security offices etc. Once these communication paths and flows
associated facilities PR.AC‐1: Identities 1.2, SR 1.3, SR 1.4,
have been determined the organization can set access controls‐ business
is limited to and credentials are SR 1.5, SR 1.7, SR
PROTECT process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel to reach
authorized users, managed for 1.8, SR 1.9
(PR) their required information, when they need it to perform their job function.
processes, or authorized devices ∙ ISO/IEC
The entire flow of information that describes who‐what‐when‐how must be
devices, and to and users 27001:2013 A.9.2.1,
documented and conveyed through ongoing training, to the effected
authorized A.9.2.2, A.9.2.4,
personnel. The organization can determine "who‐externally" needs to
activities and A.9.3.1, A.9.4.2,
know "what" information, "when" and "how" will that information be
transactions. A.9.4.3
delivered. The organization must take into account "all" external
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
communications with: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders,
Rev. 4 AC‐2, IA
government officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer
Family
portals, contact centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing
interfaces, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. Once
241The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization can set access controls‐ business process rules within various
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. The entire flow of
information that describes who‐what‐when‐how can be documented and
conveyed through ongoing training, to the effected personnel. Organization
can develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and
prohibit, where necessary, the direct connection to a public network.
Organization can develop a baseline security compliance policy for all
internal components connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile
phones, printers, laptops, etc.)
Technology Requirement(s):
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems should all have the authorized
identities, authorized credentials of access, business process rules, and
security controls built into them, such that personnel and authorized external
entities can access the correct information in a timely manner according to
the documented communications flow. Security policy filters should be in
place that monitors file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining
where this data may flow through the information system based upon
specified attributes. The system architecture is consistent with global,
organization‐wide information security architecture. This may include using
products that subscribe to your security safeguards from a diverse group of
suppliers.
Barriers:
242The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
There may be personnel in the organization that believe that their
credentials have been wrongfully applied. The organization should develop
business and cybersecurity rules that determine who is authorized to do
what within the organization's infrastructure. If there are still disagreements
and conflicts, then an organization's leadership and management should
decide on a case‐by‐case basis.
Professional staff should be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust should be established and additional levels of
training can take place.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization should determine whom within, internal and external to the
entire organization, can be allowed "PHYSICAL" access to critical
infrastructure networks systems, computing systems, storage systems,
databases, email systems, technical spaces, data centers, wiring closets,
servers rooms, devices, tools, vehicles etc. that allow the organization to be
an on‐going concern. These critical systems should be protected from ∙ COBIT 5
unauthorized 'physical' access by locked doors, locked equipment cabinets, DSS01.04, DSS05.05
locked file and software cabinets, locked fencing, biometric locks to shared ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
technical areas, locked vehicles, locked property and even 1:2009 4.3.3.3.2,
building/landscaping designs to prevent brute‐force entries to critical areas. 4.3.3.3.8
∙ ISO/IEC
PR.AC‐2: Physical
27001:2013
access to assets is Technology Requirement(s):
A.11.1.1, A.11.1.2,
managed and The entire physical protection environment should be monitored and
A.11.1.4, A.11.1.6,
protected managed by an automated, easy to use system that can see and detect entry
A.11.2.3
by authorized and unauthorized persons. This automated physical protection
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
management system should also have the integrated ability to allow
Rev. 4 PE‐2, PE‐3,
authorized operations personnel (i.e.; a NOC) to visibly see critical/protected
PE‐4, PE‐5, PE‐6, PE‐
assets, collect/store/playback video of protected assets, lock and unlock
9
physical assets, doors, entry ways, vehicles etc., remotely.
Barriers:
Professional staff should be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust can be established and additional levels of training
can take place.
243The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
There will be a CAPEX cost associated with procuring, installing and
managing a physical protection management system. There will be a time
element associated with evaluating systems, vendors and their abilities to
deliver a physical protection management system. There will be a time
element to the implementation, testing, acceptance and training associated
with a new physical protection management system.
There will be an OPEX cost associated with allocating personnel to protect
physical assets. The personnel assigned to physical protection will need to be
trained on any systems that are implemented to protect physical assets, they
will need to be trained to execute the organization's security and information
flow plans, which includes but limited to allowing and dis‐allowing other
personnel from having access to physical assets.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization should determine whom within, internal and external to the
entire organization, can be allowed "REMOTE" access to critical
infrastructure networks systems, computing systems, storage systems,
databases, email systems, technical spaces, data centers, wiring closets,
servers rooms, devices, tools, vehicles etc. that allow the organization to be
∙ COBIT 5
an on‐going concern. These critical systems should be protected from
APO13.01,
unauthorized 'REMOTE' access by mechanisms including, but not limited to:
DSS01.04, DSS05.03
firewalls, USERNAME/PASSWORDs, mult‐factor identification, access control
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
lists, scheduling limits, VPN access, LAN/WAN access, biometrics, encryption
1:2009 4.3.3.6.6
keys etc.
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.AC‐3: Remote 3:2013 SR 1.13, SR
access is managed Technology Requirement(s): 2.6
∙ ISO/IEC
The entire remote protection environment should be monitored and
27001:2013 A.6.2.2,
managed by an automated, easy to use REMOTE ACCESS system that can see
A.13.1.1, A.13.2.1
and detect entry by authorized and unauthorized persons and activity. This
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
automated REMOTE ACCESS protection management system, should also
Rev. 4 AC‐17, AC‐
have the integrated ability to allow authorized operations personnel (i.e.; a
19, AC‐20
NOC) to visibly see who is doing what from outside the physical confines of
the organization and at a virtual level. Authorized operations personnel can
also be able to see what 'virtual' activity is taking place, like login attempts,
remote port scans, database injections, software and file modifications,
storage system accesses, unauthorized remote communications etc.
244The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Barriers:
There will be a CAPEX cost associated with procuring, installing and managing
a REMOTE ACCESS protection management system. There will be a time
element associated with evaluating systems, vendors and their abilities to
deliver a physical protection management system. There will be a time
element to the implementation, testing, acceptance and training associated
with a new REMOTE ACCESS protection management system.
There will be an OPEX cost associated with allocating personnel to protect
assets from REMOTE ACCESS. The personnel assigned to REMOTE ACCESS
protection will need to be trained on any systems that are implemented to
protect assets from unauthorized REMOTE ACCESS, they will need to be
trained to execute the organization's security and information flow plans,
which includes but limited to allowing and dis‐allowing other personnel from
having REMOTE access to physical assets.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organization may implement an Access‐Permission policy based on
Separation of duties and Least Privilege. Separation of duties requires
dividing all organizational functions among multiple people to limit the
possibility that one employee could harm an organization without the
cooperation of others. In general, employees are less likely to engage in
∙ CCS CSC 12, 15
malicious acts if they should collaborate with other employees. Ideally,
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
organizations may include separation of duties in the design of their business
1:2009 4.3.3.7.3
PR.AC‐4: Access processes and enforce these processes through technical and nontechnical
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
permissions are means. The separation of duties policy also requires implementation of least
3:2013 SR 2.1
managed, privilege, which means authorizing people to use only the resources needed
∙ ISO/IEC
incorporating the to do their job. * Organizations often manage least privilege as an ongoing
27001:2013 A.6.1.2,
principles of least process, particularly when employees move through the organization as a
A.9.1.2, A.9.2.3,
privilege and result of promotions, transfers, relocations, demotions, and especially
A.9.4.1, A.9.4.4
separation of duties terminations. These privileges can be controlled using physical,
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
administrative, and technical procedures and systems. Access control based
Rev. 4 AC‐2, AC‐3,
on separation of duties and least privilege is crucial to mitigating the threat
AC‐5, AC‐6, AC‐16
of an insider cyber‐attack. These principles apply in both the physical and
virtual worlds where organizations need to prevent employees from gaining
physical or online access to resources not required by their work roles. *
The organization can carefully audit user access permissions when an
employee changes roles in the organization to avoid insider vulnerabilities
and threats. In addition, audit user access permissions frequently, to remove
245The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
permissions that are no longer needed. The organization can establish
account management policies and procedures and regularly audit account
activity.
Technology Requirement(s):
The organization may implement automated access control to systems,
servers, access doors etc. to limited unauthorized access and only allow
those who can successfully show their valid and up‐to‐date credentials. *
These automated access control system(s) may lock down assets when
unauthorized access attempts are detected and when there are a number of
failed attempts to enter in credentials. * A best practice for access control
is based on a multi‐level series of gates one can pass to allow access and an
access policy based on Least Privilege‐Separation of Duties parameters.
Barriers:
The implementation of separation of duties and least privileges will require
allocation of qualified personnel to perform this function and enforce the
rules. Implementing these practices at a granular level may also interfere
with business processes. Most organizations find it challenging to strike a
balance between implementing these recommendations and accomplishing
the organization’s mission.
Professional staff should be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust should be established and additional levels of
246The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
training can take place.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization's technical and operations staff may design their critical
infrastructure networks, such that they can withstand attacks, nodal failures
and resources outages. A suggested approach is to segment the network
design into smaller segments, so if an anomaly occurs at one location or
node, it can be isolated and not take down the entire network. It is
understood that segmentation may not be applicable to all network
scenarios, but it should be considered by the organization and evaluated for
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
its ability to maintain network integrity. Alternatives to network
1:2009 4.3.3.4
segmentation may be explored in order to achieve comparable levels of
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
resiliency.
PR.AC‐5: Network 3:2013 SR 3.1, SR
integrity is 3.8
protected, Technology Requirement(s): ∙ ISO/IEC
incorporating 27001:2013
The overall network design may be designed to maintain the fullest,
network segregation A.13.1.1, A.13.1.3,
maximum practical operational integrity. The network design should employ
where appropriate A.13.2.1
maximum practical diversity, redundancy, and segmentation where it is
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
practical.
Rev. 4 AC‐4, SC‐7
Barriers:
There will be an added CAPEX and OPEX cost to deploying diverse, redundant
and segmented network designs, in order to protect and maintain network
integrity at all times. The organization will have to weigh the costs vs. the
risks of losing the network and its business, and decide to implement
network designs based on their risk tolerance.
Awareness and PR.AT‐1: All users Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 9
247The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Training (PR.AT): are informed and Organizational leadership, operations and engineering staff should determine ∙ COBIT 5
The organization’s trained who (by job function) needs to know what information within the entire APO07.03, BAI05.07
personnel and organization. Following this exercise, various levels of cybersecurity ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
partners are responsibilities and leadership can be assigned. These levels of cybersecurity 1:2009 4.3.2.4.2
provided responsibilities will include but not limited to: Security of entire ∙ ISO/IEC
cybersecurity infrastructure, security of groups of 27001:2013 A.7.2.2
awareness systems/applications/databseses/SW/devices, security of individual ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
education and are systems/applications/databseses/SW/devices, as well as security of internal Rev. 4 AT‐2, PM‐13
adequately trained and external communications channels. The cybersecurity leadership can
to perform their then develop cybersecurity policies and procedures, then train the
information appropriate staff of these cybersecurity procedures. Once the information
security‐related security policies are established within an organization, these policies should
duties and be conveyed to the appropriate levels of executives, management, and
responsibilities staffing, such that everyone knows their responsibilities in protecting various
consistent with types of information. External policies and procedures for protecting
related policies, information, may also be developed. These externally facing information
procedures, and security policies and procedures should also be strongly conveyed to external
agreements. suppliers, partners, peers and 3rd party entities that support the
organization.
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
The Operational requirements to assign cybersecurity leadershipand
responsibilities may require the additional cost of hiring specialized
personnel and/or assigning cybersecurity responsibilities to staff (that may
be assigned to other functions). These cybersecurity responsibilities, policies
and procedures will constantly need updating to keep pace with business
changes, evolving security climates and personnel changes.
The identified 3rd party entities that organizations depend upon, may have
additional obligations or different priorities, such that they may not meet the
organization's information security requirements and policies as thoroughly
as desired by the organization.
PR.AT‐2: Privileged Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 9
248The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
users understand * The organization may determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" ∙ COBIT 5
roles & information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The APO07.02,
responsibilities organization can take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers DSS06.03
I,II,III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers, ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
engineering, technical management, program/project management, 1:2009 4.3.2.4.2,
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human 4.3.2.4.3
resources, security offices etc. * Once these communication paths and ∙ ISO/IEC
flows have been determined the organization can set access controls‐ 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
business process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel A.7.2.2
to reach their required information, when they need it to perform their job ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
function. * The entire flow of information that describes who‐what‐ Rev. 4 AT‐3, PM‐13
when‐how can be documented and conveyed through ongoing training, to
the effected personnel. * The organization should determine "who‐
externally" needs to know "what" information, "when" and "how" will that
information be delivered. * The organization may take into account "all"
external communications with: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders,
government officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer
portals, contact centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing
interfaces, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. Once
these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization should set access controls‐ business process rules within various
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. * Organization may
develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and prohibit,
where necessary, the direct connection to a public network. * Organization
may develop a baseline security compliance policy for all internal
components connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones,
printers, laptops, etc.) * The Organization may implement an Access‐
Permission policy based on Separation of duties and Least Privilege.
Separation of duties requires dividing all organizational functions among
multiple people to limit the possibility that one employee could harm an
organization without the cooperation of others. In general, employees are
less likely to engage in malicious acts if they should collaborate with other
employees. Ideally, organizations should include separation of duties in the
design of their business processes and enforce these processes through
technical and nontechnical means. The separation of duties policy also
requires implementation of least privilege, which means authorizing people
to use only the resources needed to do their job. * Organizations may
249The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
manage least privilege as an ongoing process, particularly when employees
move through the organization as a result of promotions, transfers,
relocations, demotions, and especially terminations. These privileges can be
controlled using physical, administrative, and technical procedures and
systems. Access control based on separation of duties and least privilege is
crucial to mitigating the threat of an insider cyber attack. These principles
apply in both the physical and virtual worlds where organizations need to
prevent employees from gaining physical or online access to resources not
required by their work roles. * The organization should carefully audit
user access permissions when an employee changes roles in the organization
to avoid insider vulnerabilities and threats. In addition, audit user access
permissions frequently, to remove permissions that are no longer needed.
The organization should establish account management policies and
procedures and regularly audit account activity. Once these access‐
permission policies and procedures are established, all personnel may be
trained and continuously reminded of their roles, responsibilities and any
enforceable actions that can occur, should there be any intentional
violations.
Technology Requirement(s):
250The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Organizations, sub‐organizations and all data owners who manage and
maintain information technology assets may receive comprehensive training
on implementing cybersecurity best practices.
Barriers:
The implementation of separation of duties and least privileges will require
allocation of qualified personnel to perform this function and enforce the
rules. Implementing these practices at a granular level may also interfere
with business processes. Most organizations find it challenging to strike a
balance between implementing these recommendations and accomplishing
the organization’s mission.
There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information, regarding
cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to undesirable
organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical systems,
networks and resources.
PR.AT‐3: Third‐party Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 9
251The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
stakeholders (e.g., * Theorganization may determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" ∙ COBIT 5
suppliers, customers, information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The APO07.03,
partners) understand organization may take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers APO10.04,
roles & I,II,III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers, APO10.05
responsibilities engineering, technical management, program/project management, ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human 1:2009 4.3.2.4.2
resources, security offices etc. * Once these communication paths and ∙ ISO/IEC
flows have been determined the organization can set access controls‐ 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
business process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel A.7.2.2
to reach their required information, when they need it to perform their job ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
function. * The entire flow of information that describes who‐what‐ Rev. 4 PS‐7, SA‐9
when‐how should be documented and conveyed through ongoing training, to
the effected personnel. * The organization may determine "who‐
externally" needs to know "what" information, "when" and "how" will that
information be delivered. * The organization may take into account "all"
external communications with: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders,
government officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer
portals, contact centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing
interfaces, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. Once
these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization should set access controls‐ business process rules within various
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. * Organization may
develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and prohibit,
where necessary, the direct connection to a public network. * Organization
may develop a baseline security compliance policy for all internal
components connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones,
printers, laptops, etc.) * The Organization may implement an Access‐
Permission policy based on Separation of duties and Least Privilege.
Separation of duties requires dividing all organizational functions among
multiple people to limit the possibility that one employee could harm an
organization without the cooperation of others. In general, employees are
less likely to engage in malicious acts if they collaborate with other
employees. Ideally, organizations can include separation of duties in the
design of their business processes and enforce these processes through
technical and nontechnical means. The separation of duties policy also
requires implementation of least privilege, which means authorizing people
to use only the resources needed to do their job. * Organizations can
252The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
manage least privilege as an ongoing process, particularly when employees
move through the organization as a result of promotions, transfers,
relocations, demotions, and especially terminations. These privileges can be
controlled using physical, administrative, and technical procedures and
systems. Access control based on separation of duties and least privilege is
crucial to mitigating the threat of an insider cyber‐attack. These principles
apply in both the physical and virtual worlds where organizations need to
prevent employees from gaining physical or online access to resources not
required by their work roles. * The organization should carefully audit
user access permissions when an employee changes roles in the organization
to avoid insider vulnerabilities and threats. In addition, audit user access
permissions frequently, to remove permissions that are no longer needed.
The organization may establish account management policies and
procedures and regularly audit account activity. Once these access‐
permission policies and procedures are established, all personnel may be
trained and continuously reminded of their roles, responsibilities and any
enforceable actions that can occur, should there be any intentional
violations.
Technology Requirement(s):
253The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems should all have the authorized
identities, authorized credentials of access, business process rules, and
security controls built into them, such that personnel and authorized external
entities can access the correct information in a timely manner according to
the documented communications flow. Security policy filters should be in
place that monitors file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining
where this data may flow through the information system based upon
specified attributes. The system architecture is consistent with global,
organization‐wide information security architecture. This may include using
products that subscribe to your security safeguards from a diverse group of
suppliers.
Barriers:
There may be personnel external to the organization (suppliers, customers,
and partners) that believe that their credentials have been wrongfully
applied. The organization should develop business and cybersecurity rules
that determine who is authorized to do what within the organization's
infrastructure. If there are still disagreements and conflicts, then an
organization's leadership and management can decide on a case‐by‐case
basis.
PR.AT‐4: Senior Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 9
254The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
executives * Theorganization may determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" ∙ COBIT 5
understand roles & information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The APO07.03
responsibilities organization may take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
I,II,III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers, 1:2009 4.3.2.4.2
engineering, technical management, program/project management, ∙ ISO/IEC
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
resources, security offices etc. * Once these communication paths and A.7.2.2,
flows have been determined the organization should set access controls‐ ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
business process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel Rev. 4 AT‐3, PM‐13
to reach their required information, when they need it to perform their job
function. * The entire flow of information that describes who‐what‐
when‐how may be documented and conveyed through ongoing training, to
the effected personnel. * The organization can determine "who‐
externally" needs to know "what" information, "when" and "how" will that
information be delivered. * The organization may take into account "all"
external communications with: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders,
government officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer
portals, contact centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing
interfaces, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. Once
these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization can set access controls‐ business process rules within various
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. * Organization may
develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and prohibit,
where necessary, the direct connection to a public network. * Organization
may develop a baseline security compliance policy for all internal
components connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones,
printers, laptops, etc.) * The Organization may implement an Access‐
Permission policy based on Separation of duties and Least Privilege.
Separation of duties requires dividing all organizational functions among
multiple people to limit the possibility that one employee could harm an
organization without the cooperation of others. In general, employees are
less likely to engage in malicious acts if they can collaborate with other
employees. Ideally, organizations should include separation of duties in the
design of their business processes and enforce these processes through
technical and nontechnical means. The separation of duties policy also
requires implementation of least privilege, which means authorizing people
to use only the resources needed to do their job. * Organizations can
255The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
manage least privilege as an ongoing process, particularly when employees
move through the organization as a result of promotions, transfers,
relocations, demotions, and especially terminations. These privileges can be
controlled using physical, administrative, and technical procedures and
systems. Access control based on separation of duties and least privilege is
crucial to mitigating the threat of an insider cyber‐attack. These principles
apply in both the physical and virtual worlds where organizations need to
prevent employees from gaining physical or online access to resources not
required by their work roles. * The organization may carefully audit user
access permissions when an employee changes roles in the organization to
avoid insider vulnerabilities and threats. In addition, audit user access
permissions frequently, to remove permissions that are no longer needed.
The organization may establish account management policies and
procedures and regularly audit account activity. Once these access‐
permission policies and procedures are established, all personnel should be
trained and continuously reminded of their roles, responsibilities and any
enforceable actions that can occur, should there be any intentional
violations.
Technology Requirement(s):
256The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems can all have the authorized
identities, authorized credentials of access, business process rules, and
security controls built into them, such that personnel and authorized external
entities can access the correct information in a timely manner according to
the documented communications flow. Security policy filters should be in
place that monitors file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining
where this data may flow through the information system based upon
specified attributes. The system architecture is consistent with global,
organization‐wide information security architecture. This may include using
products that subscribe to your security safeguards from a diverse group of
suppliers.
Barriers:
There may be executives within the organization that believe that their
credentials have been wrongfully applied. The organization can develop
business and cybersecurity rules that determine who is authorized to do
what within the organization's infrastructure. If there are still disagreements
and conflicts, then an organization's leadership and management should
decide on a case‐by‐case basis.
PR.AT‐5: Physical Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 9
257The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
and information * The organization may determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" ∙ COBIT 5
security personnel information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The APO07.03
understand roles & organization may take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
responsibilities I,II,III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers, 1:2009 4.3.2.4.2
engineering, technical management, program/project management, ∙ ISO/IEC
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
resources, security offices etc. * Once these communication paths and A.7.2.2,
flows have been determined the organization must set access controls‐ ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
business process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel Rev. 4 AT‐3, PM‐13
to reach their required information, when they need it to perform their job
function. * The entire flow of information that describes who‐what‐
when‐how can be documented and conveyed through ongoing training, to
the effected personnel. * The organization may determine "who‐
externally" needs to know "what" information, "when" and "how" will that
information be delivered. * The organization can take into account "all"
external communications with: vendors/suppliers, emergency responders,
government officials, peers, customers, public facing websites, customer
portals, contact centers, legal entities, executive communications, billing
interfaces, eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. Once
these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization can set access controls‐ business process rules within various
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. * Organization may
develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and prohibit,
where necessary, the direct connection to a public network. * Organization
can develop a baseline security compliance policy for all internal components
connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones, printers, laptops,
etc.) * The Organization may implement an Access‐Permission policy
based on Separation of duties and Least Privilege. Separation of duties
requires dividing all organizational functions among multiple people to limit
the possibility that one employee could harm an organization without the
cooperation of others. In general, employees are less likely to engage in
malicious acts if they can collaborate with other employees. Ideally,
organizations can include separation of duties in the design of their business
processes and enforce these processes through technical and nontechnical
means. The separation of duties policy also requires implementation of least
privilege, which means authorizing people to use only the resources needed
to do their job. * Organizations may manage least privilege as an ongoing
258The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
process, particularly when employees move through the organization as a
result of promotions, transfers, relocations, demotions, and especially
terminations. These privileges can be controlled using physical,
administrative, and technical procedures and systems. Access control based
on separation of duties and least privilege is crucial to mitigating the threat
of an insider cyber‐attack. These principles apply in both the physical and
virtual worlds where organizations need to prevent employees from gaining
physical or online access to resources not required by their work roles. *
The organization may carefully audit user access permissions when an
employee changes roles in the organization to avoid insider vulnerabilities
and threats. In addition, audit user access permissions frequently, to remove
permissions that are no longer needed. The organization should establish
account management policies and procedures and regularly audit account
activity. Once these access‐permission policies and procedures are
established, all personnel may be trained and continuously reminded of their
roles, responsibilities and any enforceable actions that can occur, should
there be any intentional violations.
Technology Requirement(s):
259The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems can all have the authorized
identities, authorized credentials of access, business process rules, and
security controls built into them, such that personnel and authorized external
entities can access the correct information in a timely manner according to
the documented communications flow. Security policy filters should be in
place that monitors file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining
where this data may flow through the information system based upon
specified attributes. The system architecture is consistent with global,
organization‐wide information security architecture. This may include using
products that subscribe to your security safeguards from a diverse group of
suppliers.
Barriers:
*There may be personnel within the organization that believe that their
credentials have been wrongfully applied. The organization may develop
business and cybersecurity rules that determine who is authorized to do
what within the organization's infrastructure. If there are still disagreements
and conflicts, then an organization's leadership and management should
decide on a case‐by‐case basis.
Data Security PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 17
260The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
(PR.DS): is protected * Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to ∙ COBIT 5
Information and PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents APO01.06,
records (data) are for critical infrastructure. * Organizations with Data centers or connect BAI02.01, BAI06.01,
managed with (Cloud) Data Centers should establish a benchmark of what applications DSS06.06
consistent with the reside in the datacenter. This benchmark may include, but not limited to: File ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
organization’s risk activity / Authorized Access Accounts / Data flow activity / Software version 3:2013 SR 3.4, SR
strategy to protect control / Database snapshots / Communications ports / Protocols in use / VM 4.1
the confidentiality, quantities and activity. * Organizations should classify, compartmentalize ∙ ISO/IEC
integrity, and and segment their critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels 27001:2013 A.8.2.3
availability of of trust, including a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
information. assets. Zero‐Trust Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, Rev. 4 SC‐28
device, application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the
network. * Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data,
content, network access and applications to only authorized users and
authorized sub‐organizations. * Organizations may consider the use of data
encryption on critical classes of data, to prevent intercepted or stolen data
from being read by those who are NOT authorized to have this data. *
Organizations should 'Continuously' monitor and establish BASELINE network
traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored data
access, and overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies,
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks. * Organizations should strive to
REDUCE Their attack surface. The attack surface can be reduced by executing
the following: Reduce the number of open ports and services on Internet‐
facing systems / Eliminate all unnecessary protocols and services from
endpoints, servers and internal systems / Implement a least‐privilege access
control policy / Deploy Next Gen Firewalls to control access to applications
and network resources.
Technology Requirement(s):
261The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
* These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls. * Computing systems,
information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs, VLANs,WANs, VPNs,
Text/SMS, Email systems should all have the scheduling, credentials of
access, business process rules, and security controls built into them, such
that personnel and authorized external entities can access the correct
information in a timely manner according to the documented
communications flow. Security policy filters may be in place that monitors file
structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where this data may
flow through the information system based upon specified attributes. The
system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐wide information
security architecture. This may include using products that subscribe to your
security safeguards from a diverse group of suppliers.
Barriers:
* There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information,
regarding cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to
undesirable organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical
systems, networks and resources.
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐ Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 17
262The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
transit is protected * Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to ∙ COBIT 5
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents APO01.06,
for critical infrastructure. * Organizations with Data centers or connect DSS06.06
with (Cloud) Data Centers should establish a benchmark of what applications ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
reside in the datacenter. This benchmark may include, but not limited to: File 3:2013 SR 3.1, SR
activity / Authorized Access Accounts / Data flow activity / Software version 3.8, SR 4.1, SR 4.2
control / Database snapshots / Communications ports / Protocols in use / VM ∙ ISO/IEC
quantities and activity. * Organizations may classify, compartmentalize 27001:2013 A.8.2.3,
and segment their critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels A.13.1.1, A.13.2.1,
of trust, including a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network A.13.2.3, A.14.1.2,
assets. Zero‐Trust Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, A.14.1.3
device, application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
network. * Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, Rev. 4 SC‐8
content, network access and applications to only authorized users and
authorized sub‐organizations. * Organizations may consider the use of data
encryption on critical classes of data, to prevent intercepted or stolen data
from being read by those who are NOT authorized to have this data. *
Organizations may 'Continuously' monitor and establish BASELINE network
traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored data
access, and overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies,
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks.
Technology Requirement(s):
* These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls. * Computing systems,
information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs, VLANs,WANs, VPNs,
Text/SMS, Email systems should all have the scheduling, credentials of
access, business process rules, and security controls built into them, such
that personnel and authorized external entities can access the correct
information in a timely manner according to the documented
communications flow. Security policy filters may be in place that monitors file
structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where this data may
263The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
flow through the information system based upon specified attributes. The
system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐wide information
security architecture. This may include using products that subscribe to your
security safeguards from a diverse group of suppliers. * Organizations can
strive to REDUCE Their attack surface. The attack surface can be reduced by
executing the following: Reduce the number of open ports and services on
Internet‐facing systems / Eliminate all unnecessary protocols and services
from endpoints, servers and internal systems / Implement a least‐privilege
access control policy / Deploy Next Gen Firewalls to control access to
applications and network resources.
Barriers:
There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information, regarding
cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to undesirable
organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical systems,
networks and resources.
Operational Requirement(s):
∙ COBIT 5
Organizations can monitor and control critical infrastructure asset
BAI09.03
configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual
1:2009 4. 4.3.3.3.9,
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored
4.3.4.4.1
PR.DS‐3: Assets are data. * Organizations can also track and document the decommissioning of
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
formally managed equipment, systems, servers, networking equipment and ensure that all data
3:2013 SR 4.2
throughout removal, storage capable devices are wiped clean and/or destroyed.
∙ ISO/IEC
transfers, and
27001:2013 A.8.2.3,
disposition
Technology Requirement(s): A.8.3.1, A.8.3.2,
The previously required hardware and software asset inventory systems, may A.8.3.3, A.11.2.7
have functionality to track and document disposal of assets. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 CM‐8, MP‐6,
PE‐16
Barriers:
264The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The additional man‐hours required to document before disposing critical
systems, hardware and software, will likely add an additional OPEX cost to
the organization.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations should ensure that bandwidth, physical circuits, virtualcircuits,
available frequencies, computing capacity, data storage, virtual machines,
and asset capacities are kept at levels that exceed the minimum required
levels by 30‐100%, such that failed critical infrastructure assets can have their ∙ COBIT 5
functions shifted to working assets in order to maintain maximum desired APO13.01
availability. ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
3:2013 SR 7.1, SR
PR.DS‐4: Adequate
7.2
capacity to ensure Technology Requirement(s):
∙ ISO/IEC
availability is Organizations should implement maximum practical diversity, redundancy,
27001:2013
maintained sparing for all of their critical systems, networks and data storage.
A.12.3.1
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Barriers: Rev. 4 AU‐4, CP‐2,
SC‐5
* There will be additional CAPEX and OPEX costs required to procure the
additional assets needed for maximum practical diversity, redundancy, and
sparing.
* There may be disagreement within organization as to what critical assets
should be redundant, diverse and sparred.
PR.DS‐5: Protections Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 17
265The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
against data leaks * Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to ∙ COBIT 5
are implemented PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents APO01.06
on critical infrastructure. * Organizations with Data centers or connect ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
with (Cloud) Data Centers should establish a benchmark of what applications 3:2013 SR 5.2
reside in the datacenter. This benchmark may include, but not limited to: File ∙ ISO/IEC
activity / Authorized Access Accounts / Data flow activity / Software version 27001:2013 A.6.1.2,
control / Database snapshots / Communications ports / Protocols in use / VM A.7.1.1, A.7.1.2,
quantities and activity. * Organizations can classify, compartmentalize and A.7.3.1, A.8.2.2,
segment their critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels of A.8.2.3, A.9.1.1,
trust, including a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network A.9.1.2, A.9.2.3,
assets. Zero‐Trust Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, A.9.4.1, A.9.4.4,
device, application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the A.9.4.5, A.13.1.3,
network. * Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, A.13.2.1, A.13.2.3,
content, network access and applications to only authorized users and A.13.2.4, A.14.1.2,
authorized sub‐organizations. * Organizations may consider the use of data A.14.1.3
encryption on critical classes of data, to prevent intercepted or stolen data ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
from being read by those who are NOT authorized to have this data. * Rev. 4 AC‐4, AC‐5,
Organizations can 'Continuously' monitor and establish BASELINE network AC‐6, PE‐19, PS‐3,
traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored data PS‐6, SC‐7, SC‐8, SC‐
access, and overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies, 13, SC‐31, SI‐4
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks. * Organizations should deploy
ENDPOINT device continuous monitoring and security management
functions. ENDPOINTs include but not limited to computers / servers / VMs /
tablets / smartphones / storage devices / hubs / any devices that connects to
the public Internet and external (Cloud) data centers. * Organizations may
monitor and control critical asset configuration and installation changes. Only
authorized staff and departments should be allowed to change the physical
and virtual configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases
and stored data. * Organizations may also track and document the
decommissioning of equipment, systems, servers, networking equipment and
ensure that all data storage capable devices are wiped clean and/or
destroyed. * Organizations may develop and implement a Mobile Device
management and Security Plan‐Policy. This plan should include but not
limited to: Authorized access control / VPN Access control / Encryption
control / Authorized system connections / Mobile Device Threats / Mobile
Device Security testing / Mobile device patching and update frequency / Loss
of Device procedures / Employee termination procedures / Employee mobile
device responsibilities & rights.
266The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems may all have the scheduling,
credentials of access, business process rules, and security controls built into
them, such that personnel and authorized external entities can access the
correct information in a timely manner according to the documented
communications flow. Security policy filters may be in place that monitors file
structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where this data may
flow through the information system based upon specified attributes. The
system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐wide information
security architecture. This may include using products that subscribe to your
security safeguards from a diverse group of suppliers. * Organizations can
strive to REDUCE Their attack surface. The attack surface can be reduced by
executing the following: Reduce the number of open ports and services on
Internet‐facing systems / Eliminate all unnecessary protocols and services
from endpoints, servers and internal systems / Implement a least‐privilege
access control policy / Deploy Next Gen Firewalls to control access to
applications and network resources.
Barriers:
There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information, regarding
cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to undesirable
organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical systems,
networks and resources.
The implementation of separation of duties and least privileges will require
allocation of qualified personnel to perform this function and enforce the
rules. Implementing these practices at a granular level may also interfere
with business processes. Most organizations find it challenging to strike a
balance between implementing these recommendations and accomplishing
the organization’s mission.
PR.DS‐6: Integrity Operational Requirement(s): ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
267The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
checking * Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to 3:2013SR 3.1, SR
mechanisms are PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents 3.3, SR 3.4, SR 3.8
used to verify on critical infrastructure. * Organizations with Data centers or connect ∙ ISO/IEC
software, firmware, with (Cloud) Data Centers should establish a benchmark of what applications 27001:2013
and information reside in the datacenter. This benchmark may include, but not limited to: File A.12.2.1, A.12.5.1,
integrity activity / Authorized Access Accounts / Data flow activity / Software version A.14.1.2, A.14.1.3
control / Database snapshots / Communications ports / Protocols in use / VM ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
quantities and activity. * Organizations can classify, compartmentalize and Rev. 4 SI‐7
segment their critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels of
trust, including a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network
assets. Zero‐Trust Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user,
device, application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the
network. * Organizations can only allow granular control of devices, data,
content, network access and applications to only authorized users and
authorized sub‐organizations. * Organizations may consider the use of data
encryption on critical classes of data, to prevent intercepted or stolen data
from being read by those who are NOT authorized to have this data. *
Organizations may 'Continuously' monitor and establish BASELINE network
traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored data
access, and overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies,
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks. * Organizations may monitor
and control critical asset configuration and installation changes. Only
authorized staff and departments should be allowed to change the physical
and virtual configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases
and stored data.
Technology Requirement(s):
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems should all have the scheduling,
credentials of access, business process rules, and security controls built into
them, such that personnel and authorized external entities can access the
correct information in a timely manner according to the documented
communications flow. Security policy filters should be in place that monitors
file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where this data may
flow through the information system based upon specified attributes. The
system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐wide information
security architecture. This may include using products that subscribe to your
268The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
securitysafeguards from a diverse group of suppliers.
Barriers:
There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information, regarding
cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to undesirable
organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical systems,
networks and resources.
The implementation of separation of duties and least privileges will require
allocation of qualified personnel to perform this function and enforce the
rules. Implementing these practices at a granular level may also interfere
with business processes. Most organizations find it challenging to strike a
balance between implementing these recommendations and accomplishing
the organization’s mission.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations should ensure that all critical infrastructure development and
testing systems, servers, storage and networking assets are completely
disconnected from the public Internet and completely disconnected from
"Live" production‐customer serving networks and systems.
PR.DS‐7: The ∙ COBIT 5
development and BAI07.04
testing Technology Requirement(s): ∙ ISO/IEC
environment(s) are Separate development and testing systems, servers, storageand networking 27001:2013
separate from the assets should be designed and built to allow new services, applications and A.12.1.4
production products to be developed without being attacked, breached or stolen from ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
environment unauthorized entities via the Internet. Rev. 4 CM‐2
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to design and build a separate
development and testing environment.
269The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate staff to operate and
maintain separate environments.
Operational Requirement(s):
* Organizations may monitor and establish BASELINE critical infrastructure
network traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored
data access, and overall asset behavior, in order to better detect anomalies,
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks. * Organizations can scan and
certify all new network connected and mobile devices before they can be
Information placed into service. * Organizations with Data centers or connect with
Protection (Cloud) Data Centers should establish a benchmark of what applications
Processes and reside in the datacenter. This benchmark may include, but not limited to: File ∙ CCS CSC 3, 10
Procedures (PR.IP): activity / Authorized Access Accounts / Data flow activity / Software version ∙ COBIT 5
Security policies control / Database snapshots / Communications ports / Protocols in use / VM BAI10.01, BAI10.02,
(that address quantities and activity. * Organizations can monitor and control critical BAI10.03, BAI10.05
purpose, scope, asset configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
roles, departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual 1:2009 4.3.4.3.2,
PR.IP‐1: A baseline
responsibilities, configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored 4.3.4.3.3
configuration of
management data. * Organizations can scan and certify all new network connected and ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
information
commitment, and mobile devices before they can be placed into service. 3:2013 SR 7.6
technology/industrial
coordination ∙ ISO/IEC
control systems is
among 27001:2013
created and Technology Requirement(s):
organizational A.12.1.2, A.12.5.1,
maintained The organization can implement a set of continuous monitoring systems and
entities), A.12.6.2, A.14.2.2,
the database processing and storage assets required to handle large volumes
processes, and A.14.2.3, A.14.2.4
of collected data from critical assets. * The organization can develop
procedures are ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
reports, graphs, charts and patterns that indicate what is considered normal
maintained and Rev. 4 CM‐2, CM‐3,
behavior for critical assets and networks.
used to manage CM‐4, CM‐5, CM‐6,
protection of CM‐7, CM‐9, SA‐10
information Barriers:
systems and assets.
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to implement continuousmonitoring
systems and the associated database and storage assets required to establish
a baseline and to detect deviations from the norm.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate staff to operate and
maintain continuous monitoring systems and the associated database and
storage assets required to establish a baseline and to detect deviations from
the norm.
270The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations using a systems‐software development lifecycle (SDLC)
approach, may incorporate security into every phase of planning, analysis,
design, and implementation of all of their critical infrastructure systems. *
∙ COBIT 5
Organizations can build in security functions and procedures before, during
APO13.01
and after they implement any of the following next‐gen technologies;
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Software Defined Networking (SDNs), Network Function Virtualization (NFV),
1:2009 4.3.4.3.3
and Virtual Machines (VMs) .
PR.IP‐2: A System ∙ ISO/IEC
Development Life 27001:2013 A.6.1.5,
Cycle to manage Technology Requirement(s): A.14.1.1, A.14.2.1,
systems is A.14.2.5
SDLC and project management tools may be implemented, based on an
implemented ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
organization's decisions to use specific methodologies.
Rev. 4 SA‐3, SA‐4,
SA‐8, SA‐10, SA‐11,
Barriers: SA‐12, SA‐15, SA‐
17, PL‐8
SDLC is evolving and many new development environments and project
management methods are being used, like Agile, Scrum, Kanban, so there
may be resistance to employing strict SDLC phases of activity.
Operational Requirement(s):
∙ COBIT 5
Organizations can monitor andcontrol critical infrastructure asset BAI06.01, BAI01.06
configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual 1:2009 4.3.4.3.2,
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored 4.3.4.3.3
data. * Organizations may also track and document the decommissioning ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.IP‐3:
of equipment, systems, servers, networking equipment and ensure that all 3:2013 SR 7.6
Configuration change
data storage capable devices are wiped clean and/or destroyed. ∙ ISO/IEC
control processes are
27001:2013
in place
A.12.1.2, A.12.5.1,
Technology Requirement(s):
A.12.6.2, A.14.2.2,
The previously required hardware and software asset inventory systems, may
A.14.2.3, A.14.2.4
have functionality to track and document disposal of assets.
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 CM‐3, CM‐4,
Barriers: SA‐10
271The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The additional human resources required to document before disposing
critical infrastructure systems, hardware and software, will likely add an
additional OPEX cost to the organization.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations may establish a critical infrastructure data and systems backup
policy, and required procedures. * Once these procedures are established
they can be tested, updated and then conveyed to the authorized data
owners and staff. * Backups of critical data, system configurations, critical
server images, virtual machine images, emails, documents, files, videos, ∙ COBIT 5
content and information critical to the operations of the organization can be APO13.01
conducted on a regular basis. The frequency of back‐ups is an organizational ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
decision based on the life expectancy of the critical data and the impact to 1:2009 4.3.4.3.9
the organization if such data was lost, stolen or compromised. ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.IP‐4: Backups of 3:2013 SR 7.3, SR
information are 7.4
Technology Requirement(s):
conducted, ∙ ISO/IEC
maintained, and There should be more than adequate storage capacity, database capacity, 27001:2013
tested periodically and network bandwidth to allow frequent backups of critical information and A.12.3.1,
data. * Organizations may wish to consider implementing complete full‐ A.17.1.2A.17.1.3,
scale disaster recovery technologies as a companion to their back‐up A.18.1.3
resources. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 CP‐4, CP‐6,
CP‐9
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX and OPEX cost to implement additional
physical and virtual resources for conducting frequent backups and
facilitating system and data recovery.
Operational Requirement(s):
PR.IP‐5: Policy and ∙ COBIT 5
regulations regarding Organizations can consider building a Security Team of staff or use external DSS01.04, DSS05.05
the physical security resources with the following roles included, but not limited to: ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
operating Incident Responders / Digital Forensics / Investigators / Security Leadership / 1:2009 4.3.3.3.1
environment for Compliance Auditor / Legal Professional / Security Operations * 4.3.3.3.2, 4.3.3.3.3,
organizational assets Organizations can monitor and control critical infrastructure asset 4.3.3.3.5, 4.3.3.3.6
are met configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and ∙ ISO/IEC
272The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
departments should be allowed to change the physical and virtual 27001:2013
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored A.11.1.4, A.11.2.1,
data. * Organizations can scan and certify all new network connected and A.11.2.2, A.11.2.3
mobile devices before they can be placed into service. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 PE‐10, PE‐12,
PE‐13, PE‐14, PE‐15,
PE‐18
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
There may be gaps in the training and conveyance of information, regarding
cyber security roles and responsibilities. This may in turn lead to undesirable
organizational consequences and negative impacts on the critical systems,
networks and resources.
There may be personnel within the organization that believe that their
credentials have been wrongfully applied. The organization can develop
business and cybersecurity rules that determine who is authorized to do
what within the organization's infrastructure. If there are still disagreements
and conflicts, then an organization's leadership and management should
decide on a case‐by‐case basis.
Operational Requirement(s):
∙ COBIT 5
Organizations can monitor and control critical infrastructure asset
BAI09.03
configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual
1:2009 4.3.4.4.4
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.IP‐6: Data is data. * Organizations can also track and document the decommissioning of
3:2013 SR 4.2
destroyed according equipment, systems, servers, networking equipment and ensure that all data
∙ ISO/IEC
to policy storage capable devices are wiped clean and/or destroyed. *
27001:2013 A.8.2.3,
Organizations may establish the acceptable life expectancy and usefulness of
A.8.3.1, A.8.3.2,
critical data, then establish policies and procedures to destroy data that is no
A.11.2.7
longer relevant to the organization. The organization can establish and
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
enforce controls for destroying data.
Rev. 4 MP‐6
273The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
The previously required hardware and software infrastructure asset
inventory systems, may have functionality to track and document disposal of
assets.
Barriers:
The additional human resources required to document disposing critical
infrastructure data for systems, hardware and software, will likely add an
additional OPEX cost to the organization.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incidentas rapidly as possible and
reach incident containment within 1 to 4 hours. Organizations can track and
measure performance times and seeks ways to reduce time to containment.
* Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incident as rapidly as possible
and achieve full business recovery and remediation within 1 to 24 hours. * ∙ COBIT 5
Organizations may track and measure performance times and seeks ways to APO11.06,
reduce time to Recovery. * Organizations may catalog lessons learned from DSS04.05
every cyber incident. This lessons learned catalog can include, but not limited ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
to: malware behaviors / attacker activities during compromise / network‐ 1:2009 4.4.3.1,
PR.IP‐7: Protection
system‐data anomalies and deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and 4.4.3.2, 4.4.3.3,
processes are
software that can be disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. * 4.4.3.4, 4.4.3.5,
continuously
Organizations should be vigilant against Advance Persistent Threats (APTs) by 4.4.3.6, 4.4.3.7,
improved
constantly monitoring for Attacker reconnaissance / Attacker incursion / 4.4.3.8
Attacker response if discovered / Attacker capture of systems / Attacker ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
outbound communications and stolen data transfer. * Organizations may Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. This lessons learned CP‐2, IR‐8, PL‐2,
catalog may include, but not limited to: malware behaviors / attacker PM‐6
activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and
deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be
disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts.
Technology Requirement(s):
274The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Computing systems, information storage systems, databases, VPNs, LANs,
VLANs,WANs, VPNs, Text/SMS, Email systems may all have the authorized
identities, authorized credentials of access, business process rules, and
security controls built into them, such that personnel and authorized external
entities can access the correct information in a timely manner according to
the documented communications flow. Security policy filters may be in place
that monitors file structure, metadata, or data type, thus, determining where
this data may flow through the information system based upon specified
attributes. The system architecture is consistent with global, organization‐
wide information security architecture. This may include using products that
subscribe to your security safeguards from a diverse group of suppliers. *
Organizations can strive to REDUCE Their attack surface. The attack surface
can be reduced by executing the following: Reduce the number of open ports
and services on Internet‐facing systems / Eliminate all unnecessary protocols
and services from endpoints, servers and internal systems / Implement a
least‐privilege access control policy / Deploy Next Gen Firewalls to control
access to applications and network resources. * Organizations may
consider the use of “Sandboxing” or the use of “Honey‐pots” where fake or
dummy assets are created and exposed to attackers for the purpose of
learning attack signatures and attack behaviors for use in protecting “Real”
critical assets.
Barriers:
Cyber protection, detection and recovery technologies will always evolve.
The organization may decide when, and at what CAPEX amount should they
upgrade their systems and technologies to improve their cyber defenses.
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
Operational Requirement(s):
PR.IP‐8: ∙ ISO/IEC
Organizations may share what they learn about Threats, Attacks, Signatures,
Effectiveness of 27001:2013
and remediation/recovery information with trusted organizations,
protection A.16.1.6
government entities and trusted industry peers. * Organizations can
technologies is ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
maintain maximum operational security and never divulge critical details of
shared with Rev. 4 AC‐21, CA‐7,
their cyber protection, and recovery procedures and technologies in public
appropriate parties SI‐4
fora.
275The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
The utilization of secure communication and encryption is vital to the sharing
of cyber protection technologies, methods and procedures.
Barriers:
Existing laws and regulationsmay limit the ability to share threat
information.
Trusted entities may not be receptive to the sharing of cyber protection
related information.
Trusted entities may not reciprocate the sharing of cyber protection related
information.
Operational Requirement(s):
* Organizationsmay develop/document a formalized Incident Response
Plan. This Incident Response Plan should contain, but not limited to the
following areas: Preparation / Incident Identification / Incident Containment
/ Incident‐Threat Eradication / Recovery / and Lessons Learned. This Incident
Response Plan may be approved by the highest levels of organizational ∙ COBIT 5
PR.IP‐9: Response leadership and by all data/system/network owning business units. * DSS04.03
plans (Incident Organizations may develop/document a formalized Business ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Response and Continuity(BC)/Disaster Recovery(DR) Plan. This Business Continuity/Disaster 1:2009 4.3.2.5.3,
Business Continuity) Recovery Plan may contain, but not limited to the following areas: / 4.3.4.5.1
and recovery plans Equipment failures / Disruption of power and telecommunications / ∙ ISO/IEC
(Incident Recovery Application failure or corruption of databases / Human error, sabotage / 27001:2013
and Disaster Malicious Software (Viruses, Worms, Trojan horses) attack / Hacking‐ A.16.1.1, A.17.1.1,
Recovery) are in Internet attacks / terrorist attacks / Fire / Natural disasters (Flood, A.17.1.2
place and managed Earthquake, Hurricanes), BC/DR Response Team(s) / Responsibilities of ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
BC/DR Response Team(s) / BC/DR Communications / Business Recovery Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐8
procedures / and Lessons Learned. This Business Continuity/Disaster
Recovery Plan may be approved by the highest levels of organizational
leadership and by all data/system/network owning business units.
Technology Requirement(s):
276The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The organization may consider DR technologies, systems, protocols,
networks, off‐site data storage facilities, and services. There may be more
than adequate storage capacity, database capacity, and network bandwidth
to allow frequent backups of critical information and data. * Organizations
may wish to consider implementing complete full‐scale disaster recovery
technologies.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringDR technologiesand off‐
site services like storage and data recovery.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Operational Requirement(s):
* Organizationsmay TEST formalized Incident Response Plans on a regular
and frequent basis. This Incident Response TESTING can contain, but not
limited to the following areas: Preparation / Incident Identification / Incident
Containment / Incident‐Threat Eradication / Recovery / and Lessons Learned.
This Incident Response TESTING may be coordinated with all levels of
organizational leadership and by all data/system/network owning business ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
units. * Organizations may TEST formalized Business 1:2009 4.3.2.5.7,
Continuity(BC)/Disaster Recovery(DR) Plans on a regular and frequent basis. 4.3.4.5.11
This Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery TESTING may contain, but not ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.IP‐10: Response limited to the following areas: BC/DR Response Team(s) Responsibilities / 3:2013 SR 3.3
and recovery plans BC/DR Communications / Business Recovery procedures / and Lessons ∙ ISO/IEC
are tested Learned. This Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery TESTING may be 27001:2013
coordinated with levels of organizational leadership and by all A.17.1.3
data/system/network owning business units. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev.4 CP‐4, IR‐3,
Technology Requirement(s): PM‐14
The organization may considerDR technologies, systems, protocols,
networks, off‐site data storage facilities, and services. There may be more
than adequate storage capacity, database capacity, and network bandwidth
to allow frequent backups of critical information and data. * Organizations
may wish to consider implementing complete full‐scale disaster recovery
technologies.
277The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringDR technologiesand off‐
site services like storage and data recovery.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations, sub‐organizations and all data owners who manage and
maintain information technology assets may receive comprehensive training
on implementing cybersecurity best practices. * Organizations may disable
/ decommision / wipe / destroy all account privileges for employees that
have departed the organization. * Organizations may develop and
implement a Mobile Device management and Security Plan‐Policy. This plan
may include but not limited to: Authorized access control / VPN Access
∙ COBIT 5
control / Encryption control / Authorized system connections / Mobile Device
APO07.01,
Threats / Mobile Device Security testing / Mobile device patching and update
APO07.02,
frequency / Loss of Device procedures / Employee termination procedures /
APO07.03,
Employee mobile device responsibilities & rights. * Organizations may
PR.IP‐11: APO07.04,
deploy ENDPOINT device continuous monitoring and security management
Cybersecurity is APO07.05
functions. ENDPOINTs include but not limited to computers / servers / VMs /
included in human ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
tablets / smartphones / storage devices / hubs / any devices that connects to
resources practices 1:2009 4.3.3.2.1,
the public Internet and external (Cloud) data centers.
(e.g., deprovisioning, 4.3.3.2.2, 4.3.3.2.3
personnel screening) ∙ ISO/IEC
Technology Requirement(s): 27001:2013 A.7.1.1,
An organization's IT department, may have to procure mobile and Endpoint A.7.3.1, A.8.1.4
device management technologies that will also disable / decommission / ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
wipe / destroy all account privileges for employees that have departed the Rev. 4 PS Family
organization.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringEndpoint and Mobile
Device management technologies.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Endpoint and Mobile Device management.
278The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations may establish and document a Threats/Vulnerabilities
management plan as it relates to critical infrastructure * Organizations
may identify all possible threats and vulnerabilities to their critical
infrastructure assets, including, but not limited to: Unauthorized Access /
Data Breaches / Malware / DDoS / Advanced Persistent Threats / Zero‐day
Attacks / Phishing / SQL Injections / USB injected bots / and False alarms. *
Organizations may conduct frequent correlation of threat intelligence with
collected network, system, data, and storage information. * Organizations
may consider executing penetration testing and vulnerability scanning
exercises on a weekly basis. * Organizations should consider the use of
“Sandboxing” or the use of “Honey‐pots” where fake or dummy assets are
created and exposed to attackers for the purpose of learning attack
signatures and attack behaviors for use in protecting “Real” critical assets. * ∙ ISO/IEC
PR.IP‐12: A
Organizations may strive to REDUCE Their attack surface. The attack surface 27001:2013
vulnerability
can be reduced by executing the following: Reduce the number of open ports A.12.6.1, A.18.2.2
management plan is
and services on Internet‐facing systems / Eliminate all unnecessary protocols ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
developed and
and services from endpoints, servers and internal systems / Implement a Rev. 4 RA‐3, RA‐5,
implemented
least‐privilege access control policy / Deploy Next Gen Firewalls to control SI‐2
access to applications and network resources.
Technology Requirement(s):
None
Barriers:
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
Maintenance PR.MA‐1: Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
279The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
(PR.MA): Maintenance and Organizations may monitor and control critical infrastructure asset BAI09.03
Maintenance and repair of configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
repairs of industrial organizational assets departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual 1:2009 4.3.3.3.7
control and is performed and configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored ∙ ISO/IEC
information system logged in a timely data. * Organizations can classify, compartmentalize and segment their 27001:2013
components is manner, with critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels of trust, including A.11.1.2, A.11.2.4,
performed approved and a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network assets. Zero‐Trust A.11.2.5
consistent with controlled tools Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, device, ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
policies and application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the network. Rev. 4 MA‐2, MA‐3,
procedures. * Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, content, MA‐5
network access and applications to only authorized users and authorized sub‐
organizations. * Organizations may collect data and track all activities with
critical assets. This may include, but not limited to logging of all logins,
applications used, files accessed/copied/downloaded, all doors opened,
Internet connections/URLs / times these events occurred and who conducted
these activities.
Technology Requirement(s):
Access control / logging/ disabling technologies and systems may have to be
deployed to protect critical assets.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control / logging /
disabling technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
PR.MA‐2: Remote Organizations may monitor and control critical infrastructure asset DSS05.04
maintenance of configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
organizational assets departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual 1:2009 4.3.3.6.5,
is approved, logged, configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored 4.3.3.6.6, 4.3.3.6.7,
and performed in a data. * Organizations can classify, compartmentalize and segment their 4.4.4.6.8
manner that critical assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels of trust, including ∙ ISO/IEC
prevents a “Zero‐Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network assets. Zero‐Trust 27001:2013
unauthorized access Zones mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, device, A.11.2.4, A.15.1.1,
application, or packet regardless of what it is and its location in the network. A.15.2.1
280The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
* Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, content, ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
network access and applications to only authorized users and authorized sub‐ Rev. 4 MA‐4
organizations. * Organizations may collect data and track all activities with
critical assets. This may include, but not limited to logging of all logins,
applications used, files accessed/copied/downloaded, all doors opened,
Internet connections/URLs / times these events occurred and who conducted
these activities.
Technology Requirement(s):
Access control / logging/ disabling technologies and systems may have to be
deployed to protect critical assets.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control / logging /
disabling technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 14
Organizations may collect data and track all activities with critical ∙ COBIT 5
infrastructure assets. This may include, but not limited to logging of all logins, APO11.04
Protective
applications used, files accessed/copied/downloaded, all doors opened, ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Technology
Internet connections/URLs / times these events occurred and who conducted 1:2009 4.3.3.3.9,
(PR.PT): Technical PR.PT‐1: Audit/log
these activities. 4.3.3.5.8, 4.3.4.4.7,
security solutions records are
4.4.2.1, 4.4.2.2,
are managed to determined,
4.4.2.4
ensure the security documented, Technology Requirement(s):
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
and resilience of implemented, and
Access control / logging/ disabling technologies and systems may have to be 3:2013 SR 2.8, SR
systems and assets, reviewed in
deployed to protect critical assets. 2.9, SR 2.10, SR
consistent with accordance with
2.11, SR 2.12
related policies, policy
∙ ISO/IEC
procedures, and Barriers:
27001:2013
agreements.
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control / logging / A.12.4.1, A.12.4.2,
disabling technologies and systems. A.12.4.3, A.12.4.4,
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be A.12.7.1
281The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
responsible for Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 AU Family
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations may identify all possible threats andvulnerabilities to their
infrastructure assets, including, but not limited to: Unauthorized Access /
Data Breaches / Malware / DDoS / Advanced Persistent Threats / Zero‐day
Attacks / Phishing / SQL Injections / USB injected bots / and False alarms. *
Organizations may deploy ENDPOINT device continuous monitoring and ∙ COBIT 5
security management functions. ENDPOINTs include but not limited to DSS05.02,
computers / servers / VMs / tablets / smartphones / storage devices / USB APO13.01
drives‐devices / Bluetooth devices / hubs / any devices that connects to the ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
PR.PT‐2: Removable public Internet and external (Cloud) data centers. 3:2013 SR 2.3
media is protected ∙ ISO/IEC
and its use restricted 27001:2013 A.8.2.2,
Technology Requirement(s):
according to policy A.8.2.3, A.8.3.1,
USB drives, Bluetooth devices and any wireless device that can store A.8.3.3, A.11.2.9
information, should be tracked / inventoried / disposed of properly if they ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
are allowed in an organization's operational environment. Rev. 4 MP‐2, MP‐4,
MP‐5, MP‐7
Barriers:
Staff may use these devices (often personal devices), regardless of
organization's policy on removable media usage.
PR.PT‐3: Access to Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
282The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
systems and assets is * The organization can determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what" DSS05.02
controlled, information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
incorporating the organization may take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers 1:2009 4.3.3.5.1,
principle of least I,II,III of critical infrastructure related operations, network ops centers, 4.3.3.5.2, 4.3.3.5.3,
functionality engineering, technical management, program/project management, 4.3.3.5.4, 4.3.3.5.5,
customer service, IT, sales, C‐suite officials, billing, accounting, human 4.3.3.5.6, 4.3.3.5.7,
resources, security offices etc. * The organization may set access controls‐ 4.3.3.5.8, 4.3.3.6.1,
business process rules within various systems to allow authorized personnel 4.3.3.6.2, 4.3.3.6.3,
to reach their required information, when they need it to perform their job 4.3.3.6.4, 4.3.3.6.5,
function. * Organization may develop a policy for connecting to external 4.3.3.6.6, 4.3.3.6.7,
information systems and prohibit, where necessary, the direct connection to 4.3.3.6.8, 4.3.3.6.9,
a public network. * The Organization can implement an Access‐Permission 4.3.3.7.1, 4.3.3.7.2,
policy based on Separation of duties and Least Privilege. Separation of 4.3.3.7.3, 4.3.3.7.4
duties requires dividing all organizational functions among multiple people to ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
limit the possibility that one employee could harm an organization without 3:2013 SR 1.1, SR
the cooperation of others. * The separation of duties policy also requires 1.2, SR 1.3, SR 1.4,
implementation of least privilege, which means authorizing people to use SR 1.5, SR 1.6, SR
only the resources needed to do their job. * Organizations can manage 1.7, SR 1.8, SR 1.9,
least privilege as an ongoing process, particularly when employees move SR 1.10, SR 1.11, SR
through the organization as a result of promotions, transfers, relocations, 1.12, SR 1.13, SR
demotions, and especially terminations. Access control based on separation 2.1, SR 2.2, SR 2.3,
of duties and least privilege is crucial to mitigating the threat of an insider SR 2.4, SR 2.5, SR
cyber‐attack. * The organization may carefully audit user access 2.6, SR 2.7
permissions when an employee changes roles in the organization to avoid ∙ ISO/IEC
insider vulnerabilities and threats. In addition, audit user access permissions 27001:2013 A.9.1.2
frequently, to remove permissions that are no longer needed. The ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
organization may establish account management policies and procedures Rev. 4 AC‐3, CM‐7
and regularly audit account activity. * Once these access‐permission policies
and procedures are established, all personnel can be trained and
continuously reminded of their roles, responsibilities and any enforceable
actions that can occur, should there be any intentional violations.*
Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, content,
network access and applications to only authorized users and authorized sub‐
organizations. * Organizations can monitor and control critical asset
configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and
departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored
data.
283The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology Requirement(s):
Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems may have to be
deployed to protect critical assets.
Barriers:
*There may be personnel internal and external to the organization (staff,
suppliers, customers, partners) that believe that their credentials have been
wrongfully applied. The organization should develop business and
cybersecurity rules that determine who is authorized to do what within the
organization's infrastructure. If there are still disagreements and conflicts,
then an organization's leadership and management should decide on a case‐
by‐case basis.
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control / logging /
disabling technologies and systems. * There will be an additional OPEX
cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be responsible for Access control / logging
/ disabling technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organizations may protect critical infrastructure related physical and virtual ∙ CCS CSC 7
circuits, networks and communications systems from attack and DDoS by ∙ COBIT 5
employing Next‐Gen firewalls, session border controllers (SBC), IPv6, DSS05.02,
encryption technologies and the latest cyber/network security best practices. APO13.01
* Organizations can stay abreast of the latest types of attacks against ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
communications protocols and employ best practices and practical 3:2013 SR 3.1, SR
PR.PT‐4: technologies to protect critical communications. 3.5, SR 3.8, SR 4.1,
Communications and SR 4.3, SR 5.1, SR
control networks are 5.2, SR 5.3, SR 7.1,
Technology Requirement(s):
protected SR 7.6
Organizations may have to procure and deploy Next‐Gen Firewalls, Session
∙ ISO/IEC
border controller(SBC), software‐application firewalls and encryption
27001:2013
technologies in order to protect critical communications.
A.13.1.1, A.13.2.1
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Barriers: Rev. 4 AC‐4, AC‐17,
AC‐18, CP‐8, SC‐7
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringFirewall, SBC, encryption
technologies and systems.
284The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
There willbe an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for the operations of Firewall, SBC, encryption technologies and
systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff can develop, document, and maintain
under configuration control, a current baseline configuration of the critical
infrastructure information system. Baseline configurations include
information about information system components (e.g. standard software
packages installed on workstastions, notebook computers, servers, network
components, or mobile devices) along with the network topology. The
organization may maintain baseline configurations by creating new baselines
as organizational informational systems change over time. * The
organization may determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what"
information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The
organization should take into account "all" internal communications with:
Tiers I,II,III of operations, network ops centers, engineering, technical
Anomalies and DE.AE‐1: A baseline management, program/project management, customer service, IT, sales, C‐
∙ COBIT 5
Events (DE.AE): of network suite officials, billing, accounting, human resources, security offices etc.
DSS03.01
Anomalous activity operations and Once these communication paths and flows have been determined the
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
DETECT is detected in a expected data flows organization may set access controls‐ business process rules within various
1:2009 4.4.3.3
(DE) timely manner and for users and systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
the potential systems is when they need it to perform their job function. The entire flow of
Rev. 4 AC‐4, CA‐3,
impact of events is established and information that describes who‐what‐when‐how can be documented and
CM‐2, SI‐4
understood. managed conveyed through ongoing training, to the effected personnel.
Technical Requirements:
The organization may employ automated mechanisms to maintain an up‐to‐
date, complete, accurate, and readily available baseline configuration.
Mechanisms can include hardware and software inventory tools,
configuration management tools, and network management tools. These
tools, for example, can be used to track version numbers of software.
Barriers:
*The Operational requirements to map an organization's communications
flow will require assigning and allocating staff (that may be assigned to other
functions), to document this flow and to keep it updated with business and
285The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
personnel changes.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff can correlate incident information
and individual incident responses to achieve an organization‐wide
perspective on incident awareness and response for critical infrastructure.
The organization may also employ automated mechanisms to integrate audit
review, analysis, and reporting processes to support organization processes
for investigation and response to suspicious activities. The organization then
may analyze and correlate audit records across different repositories to gain
organization‐wide situational awareness. * Organizations should conduct
frequent correlation of threat intelligence with collected network, system,
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
data, and storage information. * Organizations may decide whether to
1:2009 4.3.4.5.6,
respond immediately to an incident, which may cause an attacker to wipe
4.3.4.5.7, 4.3.4.5.8
malicious code, files and toolsets from compromised systems –or‐ to monitor
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
the attacker’s activity in order to gain further threat intelligence to prevent
3:2013 SR 2.8, SR
future attacks. * Organizations may share and learn Threat, Attack,
DE.AE‐2: Detected 2.9, SR 2.10, SR
Signature, and remediation information with and from trusted organizations,
events are analyzed 2.11, SR 2.12, SR
government entities and trusted peers.
to understand attack 3.9, SR 6.1, SR 6.2
targets and methods ∙ ISO/IEC
Technical Requirements: 27001:2013
Organizations may consider automated mechanisms for centralized and A.16.1.1, A.16.1.4
analysis includes, for example, Security Information Management(SIEM) ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
technologies. * Organizations may consider the use of “Sandboxing” or the Rev. 4 AU‐6, CA‐7,
use of “Honey‐pots” where fake or dummy assets are created and exposed to IR‐4, SI‐4
attackers for the purpose of learning attack signatures and attack behaviors
for use in protecting “Real” critical assets.
Barriers:
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procure detection and analysis
tools and technologies.
DE.AE‐3: Event data Operational Requirement(s): ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
286The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
are aggregated and The organizationand appropriate staff can properly track and document 3:2013SR 6.1
correlated from information system security incidents for critical infrastructure. This can ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
multiple sources and include an automated mechanism to assist in the tracking of security Rev. 4 AU‐6, CA‐7,
sensors incidents and the collection and analysis of incident information. Also, the IR‐4, IR‐5, IR‐8, SI‐4
organization and appropriate staff may develop an incident response plan
that defines the resources and management support needed to effectively
maintain and mature your incident response capabilities. * Organizations
can monitor and establish BASELINE network traffic, file access, database
activity, software modifications, stored data access, and overall assets
behavior, in order to better detect anomalies, unauthorized access, breaches
and attacks. * Organizations can implement ‘Continuous’ network, system,
data, and storage information collection, and alert upon deviations from
normal BASELINE asset behavior. * Organizations can conduct frequent
correlation of threat intelligence with collected network, system, data, and
storage information.
Technical Requirements:
Automated mechanisms for tracking security incidents and
collecting/analyzing incident information include, for example, the Einstein
network monitoring device and monitoring online Computer Incident
Response Centers or other electronic databases of incident handling.
Barriers:
*Professional staff may be allocated/assignedto this task, which may cause
an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX costs.
Additional levels of trust may need to be established and additional levels of
training should take place. * The chosen sources to which threats and
vulnerabilities can be drawn from, may violate the organization cybersecurity
policies and procedures. * The organization can use extreme caution and
ensure that these sources do not connect directly to critical networks and
systems. They can be used as information sources only. * There will be an
additional CAPEX cost to procure detection and analysis tools and
technologies.
DE.AE‐4: Impact of Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
287The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
events is determined The organizationand appropriatestaff can coordinate with external APO12.06
organizations to correlate and share incident information to achieve a cross‐ ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
organization perspective of the security event as it relates to critical Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
infrastructure. * The organization may also employ automatic tools to RA‐3, SI ‐4
support near real‐time analysis of events. * The organization may also
identify critical information system assets and the resources in which they
support. * Organizations may identify all possible threats and
vulnerabilities to their assets, including, but not limited to: Unauthorized
Access / Data Breaches / Malware / DDoS / Advanced Persistent Threats /
Zero‐day Attacks / Phishing / SQL Injections / USB injected bots / and False
alarms. * Organization may determine the consequences of various cyber
incidents. These consequences may include, but not limited to degradation of
public trust / financial and market losses / degradation of brand reputation /
impact to critical infrastructure.
Technical Requirements:
Automatic tools include, for example, host‐based, network‐based, transport‐
based, or storage‐based event monitoring tools or Security Information and
Event Management (SIEM) technologies that provide real time analysis of
alerts and/or notifications generated by organizational information systems.
* Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents.
These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls.
Barriers:
*Professional staff should be allocated/assignedto this task, which may
cause an increase in salaries, benefits, administration and logistics OPEX
costs. Additional levels of trust can be established and additional levels of
training can take place.
288The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
When organizations employ monitoring, scanning and collection functions,
and baselines have been set for 'normal' behavior, the organization may
establish thresholds of incident alerts, where valid problems are alerted
upon, and keeps false alarms to a minimum. This can be an iterative process
and the thresholds should be adjusted as the organization learns more ∙ COBIT 5
details of 'normal' behavior as it relates to critical infrastructure. APO12.06
DE.AE‐5: Incident ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
alert thresholds are 1:2009 4.2.3.10
Technical Requirements:
established ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Systems for monitoring, scanning and collection will need their parameters Rev. 4 IR‐4, IR‐5, IR‐
adjusted as thresholds are established and changed. 8
Barriers:
Operational Requirement(s):
Security The organization and appropriate staff monitors the information system to
Continuous detect attacks and indicators of potential attacks in accordance with defined
Monitoring monitoring objectives for critical infrastructure. The organization may be
(DE.CM): The looking for unauthorized local, network, and remote connections. To
∙ CCS CSC 14, 16
information system accomplish this organization may deploy monitoring devices strategically
DE.CM‐1: The ∙ COBIT 5
and assets are within the information system to collect organization‐determined essential
network is DSS05.07
monitored at information, and at ad hoc locations within the system to track specific types
monitored to detect ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
discrete intervals of transactions of interests to the organization. * Organizations may
potential Rev. 4 AC‐2, AU‐12,
to identify continuously monitor and establish BASELINE network traffic, file access,
cybersecurity events CA‐7, CM‐3, SC‐5,
cybersecurity database activity, software modifications, stored data access, and overall
SC‐7, SI‐4
events and verify assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies, unauthorized access,
the effectiveness of breaches and attacks. * Organizations may consider executing penetration
protective testing and vulnerability scanning exercises on a weekly basis.
measures.
Technical Requirements:
289The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The organization may employ different monitoring tools, e.g., host
monitoring, network monitoring, and anti‐virus software. * Organizations
may consider deploying various tools and technologies to PREVENT /
MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents. These tools
and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port scanning /
packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐Protection(IPS/IDS) /
Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation functions / Digital forensics
/ Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access control / SSL Decryption /
Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking / Outbound botnet
communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐data security
analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls.
Barriers:
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff may
establish procedures for monitoring and alarming when physical or
environmental security is compromised. * Physical and environmental
security measures can be designed to complement the cyber security
measures taken to protect assets that are part of the information system.
When developing a program for physical security of assets, it is important to
DE.CM‐2: The
include all systems in the scope and not just limit the effort to traditional
physical
computer room facilities. * Organizations can monitor and control critical
environment is ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
asset configuration and installation changes. Only authorized staff and
monitored to detect 1:2009 4.3.3.3.8
departments may be allowed to change the physical and virtual
potential
configurations of critical assets, software, applications, databases and stored
cybersecurity events
data. * The organization may determine whom within, internal and
external to the entire organization, may be allowed "PHYSICAL" access to
critical networks systems, computing systems, storage systems, databases,
email systems, technical spaces, data centers, wiring closets, servers rooms,
devices, tools, vehicles etc. that allow the organization to be an on‐going
concern. These critical systems may be protected from unauthorized
'physical' access by locked doors, locked equipment cabinets, locked file and
290The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
software cabinets, locked fencing, biometric locks to shared technical areas,
locked vehicles, locked property and even building/landscaping designs to
prevent brute‐force entries to critical areas.
Technical Requirements:
Physical segmentation is a key security countermeasure designed to
compartmentalize devices into security zones where identified security
practices are employed to achieve the desired target security level. * The
entire physical protection environment for critical infrastructure should be
monitored and managed by an automated, easy to use system that can see
and detect entry by authorized and unauthorized persons. This automated
physical protection management system can also have the integrated ability
to allow authorized operations personnel (i.e.; a NOC) to visibly see
critical/protected assets, collect/store/playback video of protected assets,
lock and unlock physical assets, doors, entry ways, vehicles etc., remotely.
Barriers:
* There will be CAPEX and OPEX costs associated with procuring, installing
and managing a physical protection management system. There will be a
time element associated with evaluating systems, vendors and their abilities
to deliver a physical protection management system. There will be a time
element to the implementation, testing, acceptance and training associated
with a new physical protection management system.
DE.CM‐3: Personnel Operational Requirement(s): ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
291The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
activity is monitored The organization and appropriate staff may identify and select the proper 3:2013SR 6.2
to detect potential types of critical infrastructure information, system accounts to support, i.e. ∙ ISO/IEC
cybersecurity events administrator, user, etc. The organization can then assign account managers 27001:2013
for the system information accounts, establish account privileges, and A.12.4.1
monitor the use of information system accounts, including deleting accounts ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
promptly and when necessary. * Organizations may collect data and track Rev. 4 AC‐2, AU‐12,
all activities with critical assets. This may include, but not limited to logging of AU‐13, CA‐7, CM‐
all logins, applications used, files accessed/copied/downloaded, all doors 10, CM‐11
opened, Internet connections/URLs / times these events occurred and who
conducted these activities. * Access control based on separation of duties
and least privilege is crucial to mitigating the threat of an insider cyber‐
attack. * The organization can carefully audit user access permissions
when an employee changes roles in the organization to avoid insider
vulnerabilities and threats. In addition, audit user access permissions
frequently, to remove permissions that are no longer needed.
Technical Requirements:
Access control / logging/ disabling technologies and systems may have to be
deployed to protect critical infrastructure assets. * The organization may
employ an information system that automatically can remove temporary and
emergency account after a designated time period. This system may also
disable inactive account after a certain amount of time. In addition, the
system can be configured to log out inactive users after a defined time‐
period. * Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems
may have to be deployed to protect critical assets.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control / logging /
disabling technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Access control / logging / disabling technologies and systems.
DE.CM‐4: Malicious Operational Requirement(s): ∙ CCS CSC 5
292The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
code is detected For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff employs ∙ COBIT 5
malicious code protection mechanisms at information system entry and exit DSS05.01
points to detect and eradicate malicious code. * The organization may ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
configure the malicious code protection to perform periodic scans of the 1:2009 4.3.4.3.8
information system at a defined frequency and real‐time scans of files from ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
external sources at the network endpoints. This program may be configured 3:2013 SR 3.2
to block or quarantine malicious code and send alert to all administrators. ∙ ISO/IEC
27001:2013
A.12.2.1
Technical Requirements:
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
The organization may implement nonsignature‐based malicious code Rev. 4 SI‐3
detection mechanisms, which include the use of heuristics to detect, analyze,
and describe the characteristics or behavior of malicious code and to provide
safeguards against malicious code for which signatures do not yet exist or for
which existing signatures may not be effective.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringmaliciouscode protection
and detection technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for malicious code protection and detection technologies and
systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff may define
acceptable and unacceptable mobile code and mobile code technologies. *
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
The organization also can establish usage restrictions and implementations
3:2013 SR 2.4
guidance for acceptable mobile code and mobile code technologies. * The
∙ ISO/IEC
organization may authorize, monitor, and control the use of mobile code
DE.CM‐5: 27001:2013
within the information system as it relates to critical infrastructure. *
Unauthorized mobile A.12.5.1
Organizations may develop and implement a Mobile Device management
code is detected ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
and Security Plan‐Policy. This plan may include but not limited to: Authorized
Rev. 4 SC‐18, SI‐4.
access control / VPN Access control / Encryption control / Authorized Apps &
SC‐44
mobile software / Authorized system connections / Mobile Device Threats /
Mobile Device Security testing / Mobile device patching and update
frequency / Loss of Device procedures / Employee termination procedures /
Employee mobile device responsibilities & rights.
293The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technical Requirements:
The organization may implement nonsignature‐based malicious code
detection mechanisms, which include the use of heuristics to detect, analyze,
and describe the characteristics or behavior of malicious code and to provide
safeguards against malicious code for which signatures do not yet exist or for
which existing signatures may not be effective. * The organization may
consider deploying Mobile Device Management(MDM) technologies. These
MDM systems may employ an information system which prevents the
automatic execution of mobile code in certain software applications and
enforces actions to be carried out prior to executing the code. Actions before
executing the code, may include, prompting users prior to opening electronic
mail attachments. Preventing automatic execution of code may include
disabling auto execute features on information system components
employing portable storage devices.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringmalicious code protection
and detection technologies and MDM technologies.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for malicious code protection and detection and MDM
technologies.
DE.CM‐6: External Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
294The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
service provider For critical infrastructure, organizations may require that service providers of APO07.06
activity is monitored external information system services comply with organizational information ∙ ISO/IEC
to detect potential security requirements and employ mechanisms to monitor compliance by 27001:2013
cybersecurity events external providers on an ongoing basis. * Organizations can monitor and A.14.2.7, A.15.2.1
control critical asset configuration and installation changes. * ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Organizations can classify, compartmentalize and segment their critical Rev. 4 CA‐7, PS‐7,
assets and data. Establish “Zones” of various levels of trust, including a “Zero‐ SA‐4, SA‐9, SI‐4
Trust” Zone for the most critical data and network assets. Zero‐Trust Zones
mean no default trust is allowed for any entity, user, device, application, or
packet regardless of what it is and its location in the network. *
Organizations may only allow granular control of devices, data, content,
network access and applications to only authorized users and authorized sub‐
organizations. * Organizations may collect data and track all activities with
critical assets. This may include, but not limited to logging of all logins,
applications used, files accessed/copied/downloaded, all doors opened,
Internet connections/URLs / times these events occurred and who conducted
these activities. * The organization may determine whom within, internal
and external to the entire organization, should be allowed "REMOTE" access
to critical networks systems, computing systems, storage systems, databases,
email systems, technical spaces, data centers, wiring closets, servers rooms,
devices, tools, vehicles etc. that allow the organization to be an on‐going
concern. These critical systems may be protected from unauthorized
'REMOTE' access by mechanisms including, but not limited to: firewalls,
USERNAME/PASSWORDs, multi‐factor identification, access control lists,
scheduling limits, VPN access, LAN/WAN access, biometrics, encryption keys
etc. * Organizations can monitor physical and virtual circuits and networks
connecting to service providers for fraudulent and malicious activities within
the native protocols that serve these circuits.
Technical Requirements:
Access control / logging/ disabling technologies and systems may have to be
deployed to protect critical infrastructure assets. * The organization may
employ an information system that automatically can remove temporary and
emergency account after a designated time period. This system may also
disable inactive account after a certain amount of time. In addition, the
system can be configured to log out inactive users after a defined time‐
period. * Session border controllers, firewalls and analytics may need to
295The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
be deployed to detect anomalies from connected service providers.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringAccess control, SBC and
Firewall technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Access control, SBC and Firewall technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff may develop
a monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program,
which includes organization metrics to be monitored and the frequency at
which to monitor these metrics. The organization can analyze and assess the
information that is generated by this monitoring program for any anomalies
or security concerns. * Organizations may monitor and establish BASELINE
network traffic, file access, database activity, software modifications, stored
data access, and overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies,
unauthorized access, breaches and attacks.
DE.CM‐7: Monitoring
for unauthorized ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Technical Requirements:
personnel, Rev. 4 AU‐12, CA‐7,
connections, devices, The organization may deploy automated monitoring tools to help in its CM‐3, CM‐8, PE‐3,
and software is monitoring efforts for critical infrastructure. Automated tools include, for PE‐6, PE‐20, SI‐4
performed example, host‐based, network‐based, network‐based, transport‐based, or
storage‐based event monitoring tools or Security Information and Event
Management (SIEM) technologies that provide real time analysis of alerts
and/or notifications generated by organizations information systems. *
Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents.
These tools and technologies should include, but not limited to: Network
port scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
296The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringSIEM technologies and
systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for SIEM technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff can scan for
vulnerabilities in the information system and hosted applications at a defined
frequency and when new vulnerabilities potentially affecting the
system/applications are identified and reported. The process may include
analyzing the scans and correcting legitimate vulnerabilities. *
∙ COBIT 5
Organizations may consider executing penetration testing and vulnerability
BAI03.10
scanning exercises on a weekly basis.
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
1:2009 4.2.3.1,
DE.CM‐8:
Technical Requirements: 4.2.3.7
Vulnerability scans
The organization may implementvulnerability scanning tools that include the ∙ ISO/IEC
are performed
capability to readily update the information systems vulnerabilities to be 27001:2013
scanned. Also, automated mechanisms to compare the results of A.12.6.1
vulnerability scans over time may be implemented to determine trends. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Rev. 4 RA‐5
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringscanning & data
collection technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for scanning & data collection technologies and systems.
297The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff develops a security assessment plan
that describes the scope of the assessment, including employing assessors or
assessment teams with a level of independence to conduct security control
assessments of critical infrastructure assets. Independent assessors or
assessment teams are individuals or groups who conduct impartial
assessments of organizational information systems. To achieve impartiality,
assessors should not: (i) create a mutual or conflicting interests with the
organizations where the assessments are being conducted; (ii) assess their
own work; (iii) act as management or employees of the organization they are
serving; or (iv) place themselves in positions of advocacy for the
organizations acquiring their services. * Organizational leadership,
operations and engineering staff should determine who (by job function) has
Detection various levels of cybersecurity responsibilities and leadership should be ∙ CCS CSC 5
Processes (DE.DP): assigned. These levels of cybersecurity responsibilities will include but not ∙ COBIT 5
Detection limited to: Detection / Incident Response / BC‐DR / Security of entire DSS05.01
processes and DE.DP‐1: Roles and infrastructure / security of groups of systems ‐ applications ‐ ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
procedures are responsibilities for databseses/SW/devices, security of individual 1:2009 4.4.3.1
maintained and detection are well systems/applications/databseses/SW/devices, as well as security of internal ∙ ISO/IEC
tested to ensure defined to ensure and external communications channels. The cybersecurity leadership can 27001:2013 A.6.1.1
timely and accountability then develop cybersecurity policies and procedures, then train the ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
adequate appropriate staff of these cybersecurity procedures. * Organizations, sub‐ Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
awareness of organizations and all data owners who manage and maintain information PM‐14
anomalous events. technology assets may receive comprehensive training on implementing
cybersecurity best practices. * Organizations may consider various types
of resources for responding to cyber incidents. These resources include, but
not limited to: Incident Response Team pulled from existing staff as incident
arise / Response Team of staff dedicated to incident response, reporting,
remediation / Third‐party response services and providers.
Technical Requirements:
Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents.
These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
298The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringSIEM / IPS / IDS
technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for SIEM / IPS / IDS technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff should
develop a plan to monitor the information systems and technical assets of an
organization and obtain legal opinion with regards to the monitoring
activities to ensure these activities are in accordance with applicable federal ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
laws, privacy considerations, Executive Orders, directives, policies, or 1:2009 4.4.3.2
regulations. ∙ ISO/IEC
DE.DP‐2: Detection
27001:2013
activities comply
A.18.1.4
with all applicable Technical Requirements:
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
requirements
None Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
PM‐14, SI‐4
Barriers:
Some techniques, methods and technologies may cross legal and regulatory
boundaries, and legal and regulatory requirements may vary across sectors.
Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
The organization and appropriate staff may test critical infrastructure APO13.02
intrusion‐monitoring tools at a defined frequency. Testing intrusion‐ ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
DE.DP‐3: Detection
monitoring is necessary to ensure that the tools are operating correctly and 1:2009 4.4.3.2
processes are tested
continue to meet the monitoring objectives of the organization. * ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
Organizations may consider executing penetration testing and vulnerability 3:2013 SR 3.3
scanning exercises on a periodic basis (e.g. weekly). ∙ ISO/IEC
299The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
27001:2013
A.14.2.8
Technical Requirements:
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Organizations can procure Cyber Incident Detectiontools and technologies
Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
that can be adequately tested without disabling live‐operational systems and
PE‐3, PM‐14, SI‐3,
networks.
SI‐4
Barriers:
In order to make testing as realistic as possible, some detection methods and
technologies may have a negative impact on live‐operational systems and
networks.
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriatestaff may share information obtained from
the vulnerability scanning process and security control assessments with
appropriate staff to help eliminate similar vulnerabilities in other critical
infrastructure information systems. This could include automatic alerts from
the information system itself that conveys the information to the appropriate ∙ COBIT 5
staff. * Organizations can monitor and establish BASELINE network traffic, APO12.06
file access, database activity, software modifications, stored data access, and ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
overall assets behavior, in order to better detect anomalies, unauthorized 1:2009 4.3.4.5.9
DE.DP‐4: Event
access, breaches and attacks. * Organizations can conduct frequent ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
detection
correlation of threat detection intelligence with live collected network, 3:2013 SR 6.1
information is
system, data, and storage information. * Organizations may share and ∙ ISO/IEC
communicated to
learn Threat, Attack, Signature, and remediation information with and from 27001:2013
appropriate parties
trusted organizations, government entities and trusted peers. A.16.1.2
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Technical Requirements: Rev. 4 AU‐6, CA‐2,
CA‐7, RA‐5, SI‐4
For critical infrastructure the organization may deploy an information system
that alerts appropriate personnel when there is an indication that a
compromise has or may occur. Alerts may be generated from a variety of
sources, including, for example, audit records or input from malicious code
protection mechanisms, intrusion detection or prevention mechanisms, or
boundary protection devices such as firewalls, gateways, and routers.
300The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringSIEM / IPS / IDS
technologies and systems.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for SIEM / IPS / IDS technologies and systems.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may analyze communication
traffic/event patterns for the critical infrastructure information system;
develop profiles representing common traffic patterns and/or events; and
use the traffic/event profiles for tuning system‐monitoring devices to reduce
the number of false positives and the number of false negatives. In addition,
the organization may use trend analysis to determine if security control
implementations, the frequency of continuous monitoring activities, and/or
the types of activities used in continuous monitoring process need to be
modified based on empirical data. * Organizations may consider the use ∙ COBIT 5
of “Sandboxing” or the use of “Honey‐pots” where fake or dummy assets are APO11.06,
created and exposed to attackers for the purpose of learning attack DSS04.05
signatures and attack behaviors for use in protecting “Real” critical assets. * ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
DE.DP‐5: Detection Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incident as rapidly as possible and 1:2009 4.4.3.4
processes are reach incident containment within 1 to 4 hours. * Organizations can track ∙ ISO/IEC
continuously and measure performance times and seeks ways to reduce time to 27001:2013
improved containment. * Organizations can catalog lessons learned from every cyber A.16.1.6
incident. These lessons learned catalog should include, but not limited to: ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
malware behaviors / attacker activities during compromise / network‐ Rev. 4, CA‐2, CA‐7,
system‐data anomalies and deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and PL‐2, RA‐5, SI‐4,
software that can be disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. PM‐14
Technical Requirements:
Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents.
These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
301The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX and OPEX cost to procuringSIEM / IPS / IDS
technologies and systems and training staff.
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may provide the capability to restore
critical infrastructure information system components within a specified time
to a known operational state of the system. The organization and
appropriate staff may also identify classes of incidents and the appropriate
Response Planning ∙ COBIT 5
responses to these incidents to ensure a response plan can be carefully
(RS.RP): Response BAI01.10
carried out. * Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incident as rapidly
processes and ∙ CCS CSC 18
as possible and reach incident containment within 1 to 4 hours.
procedures are ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
RS.RP‐1: Response Organizations should track and measure performance times and seeks ways
executed and 1:2009 4.3.4.5.1
RESPOND plan is executed to reduce time to containment. * Organizations can strive to identify a
maintained, to ∙ ISO/IEC
(RS) during or after an cyber incident as rapidly as possible and achieve full business recovery and
ensure timely 27001:2013
event remediation within 1 to 24 hours. Organizations can track and measure
response to A.16.1.5
performance times and seeks ways to reduce time to Recovery. *
detected ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
Organizations can catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. These
cybersecurity Rev. 4 CP‐2, CP‐10,
lessons learned catalog should include, but not limited to: malware behaviors
events. IR‐4, IR‐8
/ attacker activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies
and deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be
disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts.
Technical Requirements:
302The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Before and during execution of the response plan, the organization can use
fall back technologies that allows information systems to operate in a
reserved mode while being reconfigured. * The organization may consider
DR technologies, systems, protocols, networks, off‐site data storage facilities,
and services. There may be more than adequate storage capacity, database
capacity, and network bandwidth to allow frequent backups of critical
information and data. * Organizations may wish to consider implementing
complete full‐scale disaster recovery technologies.
Barriers:
Lack of staff dedicated to Incident Response will hinder an effective response
to an attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security
expertise in the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident
response / specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of formal, and Ad‐Hoc
communications between sub‐organizations, suppliers, and service providers
before, during and in response to a cyber incident, will hinder any effective
incident response.
There will be an additional CAPEX and OPEX cost to procuringBC and DR
technologies and systems and training staff to recover systems and data, in
order to return the organization back to normal business operations.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and supporting staff may develop an incident response plan
Communications
that provides a roadmap for implementing its incident response capability;
(RS.CO): Response
provides a high‐level approach for how the incident response capability fits ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
activities are
into the overall organization; and defines reportable incidents etc. This plan 1:2009 4.3.4.5.2,
coordinated with
RS.CO‐1: Personnel may be provided to organization‐defined incident response personnel as it 4.3.4.5.3, 4.3.4.5.4
internal and
know their roles and relates to critical infrastructure. * Organizations may develop/document ∙ ISO/IEC
external
order of operations a formalized Incident Response Plan. This Incident Response Plan may 27001:2013 A.6.1.1,
stakeholders, as
when a response is contain, but not limited to the following areas: Preparation / Incident A.16.1.1
appropriate, to
needed Identification / Incident Containment / Incident‐Threat Eradication / ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
include external
Recovery / and Lessons Learned. This Incident Response Plan may be Rev. 4 CP‐2, CP‐3,
support from law
approved by the highest levels of organizational leadership and by all IR‐3, IR‐8
enforcement
data/system/network owning business units.
agencies.
Technical Requirements:
303The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The organizations can ensure that secure, reliable electronic communications
(email, text, voice comms., etc.) are in place, so that appropriate personnel
are alerted into action when an incident response is required.
Barriers:
Lack of staff dedicated to Incident Response will hinder an effective response
to an attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security
expertise in the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident
response / specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of formal, and Ad‐Hoc
communications between sub‐organizations, suppliers, and service providers
before, during and in response to a cyber incident, will hinder any effective
incident response.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organizationand appropriatestaff require the reporting of suspect
security incidents within a specified time to the appropriate personnel. The
organization then may provide security incident information to other
organizations involved in the supply chain for information systems or
information system components related to the incident. * Organizational
leadership, operations and engineering staff can determine who (by job
function) needs to know what information within the entire organization. ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Following this exercise, various levels of cybersecurity responsibilities and 1:2009 4.3.4.5.5
RS.CO‐2: Events are leadership should be assigned. The cybersecurity leadership may then ∙ ISO/IEC
reported consistent develop cybersecurity policies and procedures, then train the appropriate 27001:2013 A.6.1.3,
with established staff of these cybersecurity procedures. * Once the information security A.16.1.2
criteria policies are established within an organization, these policies may be ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
conveyed to the appropriate levels of executives, management, and staffing, Rev. 4 AU‐6, IR‐6,
such that everyone knows their responsibilities in protecting various types of IR‐8
information. External policies and procedures for protecting information,
may also be developed. These externally facing information security policies
and procedures may also be strongly conveyed to external suppliers,
partners, peers and 3rd party entities that support the organization. *
Organizations, sub‐organizations and all data owners who manage and
maintain information technology assets may receive comprehensive training
on implementing cybersecurity best practices.
304The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technical Requirements:
The organizations can ensure that secure, reliable electronic communications
(email, text, voice comms., etc.) are in place, so that appropriate personnel
are alerted into action when an incident response is required.
Barriers:
There may be an additional OPEX cost of hiring specialized personnel and/or
assigning cybersecurity responsibilities to staff. These cybersecurity
responsibilities, policies and procedures will constantly need updating to
keep pace with business changes, evolving security climates and personnel
changes.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may incorporate into their critical
infrastructure information system monitoring mechanism, automatic means
to alert security personnel of inappropriate or unusual activities with security
implications. * The organization deploys near real time analysis of events
and anomalies that occur within the information system. This analysis may
not only include information involving direct attacks but also information
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
regarding potential threats as well. * Organizations may share and learn
1:2009 4.3.4.5.2
Threat, Attack, Signature, and remediation information with and from
∙ ISO/IEC
trusted organizations, government entities and trusted peers.
RS.CO‐3: Information 27001:2013
is shared consistent A.16.1.2
with response plans Technical Requirements: ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
The organizations can ensure that secure, reliable electronic communications Rev. 4 CA‐2, CA‐7,
(email, text, voice comms., etc.) are in place, so that appropriate personnel CP‐2, IR‐4, IR‐8, PE‐
are alerted into action when an incident response is required. 6, RA‐5, SI‐4
Barriers:
There may be an additional OPEX cost of hiring specialized personnel and/or
assigning cybersecurity responsibilities to staff. These cybersecurity
responsibilities, policies and procedures will constantly need updating to
keep pace with business changes, evolving security climates and personnel
305The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
changes.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may coordinate its contingencyplan
with the contingency plans of external service providers to ensure that
contingency requirements can be satisfied. * Organizations may share and
learn Threat, Attack, Signature, and remediation information with and from
trusted organizations, government entities and trusted peers. * The
organization can determine "who‐externally" needs to know "what"
information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The
organization may take into account "all" external communications with:
vendors/suppliers, emergency responders, government officials, peers,
customers, public facing websites, customer portals, contact centers, legal
entities, , service providers, executive communications, billing interfaces,
eCommerce interfaces, mobile/remote employees etc. * Once these
communication paths and flows have been determined the organization
RS.CO‐4: should set access controls‐ business process rules within various systems to ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
Coordination with allow authorized personnel to reach their required information, when they 1:2009 4.3.4.5.5
stakeholders occurs need it to perform their job function. The entire flow of information that ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
consistent with describes who‐what‐when‐how should be documented and conveyed Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
response plans through ongoing training, to the effected personnel. * Organizations may IR‐8
develop a policy for connecting to external information systems and prohibit,
where necessary, the direct connection to a public network. Organization
can develop a baseline security compliance policy for all external
components connecting to the information system (e.g. mobile phones,
printers, laptops, etc.)
Technical Requirements:
The organizations can ensure that secure, reliable electronic EXTERNAL
communications (email, text, voice comms., etc.) are in place, so that
appropriate 3rd parties/Stakeholders/ 1st Responder personnel are alerted
into action when an incident response is required.
Barriers:
306The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
There may be an additional OPEX and CAPEX costs associated with back‐
up/redundant services from service providers and trusted 3rd parties who
may be needed in response to an incident.
Lack of formal, and Ad‐Hoc communications between sub‐organizations,
suppliers, and service providers before, during and in response to a cyber
incident, will hinder any effective incident response.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff establish and institutionalize contact
with selected groups and associations within the security community. The
organization may then develop a channel to receive information system
security alerts, advisories, and directives from these organizations on an
ongoing basis. * Organizations may share and learn Threat, Attack,
Signature, and remediation information with and from trusted organizations,
government entities and trusted peers.
Technical Requirements:
RS.CO‐5: Voluntary
The organization can employ automated mechanisms to make security alert
information sharing
and advisory information available throughout the organization. *
occurs with external
Organizations may ensure that secure, reliable electronic EXTERNAL
stakeholders to ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
communications (email, text, voice
achieve broader Rev. 4 PM‐15, SI‐5
comms..........................................................., etc.) are in place, so that
cybersecurity
appropriate 3rd parties/Stakeholders/ 1st Responder personnel are alerted
situational
into action when an incident response is required.
awareness
Barriers:
There may be an additional OPEX and CAPEX costs associated with back‐
up/redundant services from service providers and trusted 3rd parties who
may be needed in response to an incident.
Lack of formal, and Ad‐Hoc communications between sub‐organizations,
suppliers, and service providers before, during and in response to a cyber
incident, will hinder any effective incident response. The lack of legislative
clarity regarding cyber threat information sharing may also hinder incident
response.
Analysis (RS.AN): RS.AN‐1: Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
307The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Analysis is Notifications from The organization and appropriate staff may review and analyzes critical DSS02.07
conducted to detection systems infrastructure information system audit records at specified intervals for ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
ensure adequate are investigated indications of unauthorized activities. The anomalies can be reported to the 1:2009 4.3.4.5.6,
response and appropriate staff. * The information system provides the capability to 4.3.4.5.7, 4.3.4.5.8
support recovery centrally review and analyze audit records from multiple components within ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
activities. the system. Automated mechanisms for centralized reviews and analyses 3:2013 SR 6.1
include, for example, Security Information Management products. * ∙ ISO/IEC
Organizations may conduct frequent correlation of threat intelligence with 27001:2013
collected network, system, data, and storage information. * Organizations A.12.4.1, A.12.4.3,
can strive to identify a cyber incident as rapidly as possible and reach incident A.16.1.5
containment within 1 to 4 hours. * Organizations should track and ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
measure performance times and seek ways to reduce time to containment. Rev. 4 AU‐6, CA‐7,
* Organizations may decide whether to respond immediately to an incident, IR‐4, IR‐5, PE‐6, SI‐4
which may cause an attacker to wipe malicious code, files and toolsets from
compromised systems –or‐ to monitor the attacker’s activity in order to gain
further threat intelligence to prevent future attacks. * Organizations may
conduct frequent correlation of threat intelligence with collected network,
system, data, and storage information. * Organizations can be vigilant
against Advance Persistent Threats (APTs) by constantly monitoring for
Attacker reconnaissance / Attacker incursion / Attacker response if
discovered / Attacker capture of systems / Attacker outbound
communications and stolen data transfer.
Technical Requirements:
Organizations may consider deploying various tools and technologies to
PREVENT / MITIGATE / RESPOND and RECOVER from cyber‐attack incidents.
These tools and technologies may include, but not limited to: Network port
scanning / packet capture‐inspection / Intrusion Detection‐
Protection(IPS/IDS) / Endpoint monitoring‐security / Threat correlation
functions / Digital forensics / Data‐File flow and anomaly detection / Access
control / SSL Decryption / Log analysis / File‐content filtering‐blocking /
Outbound botnet communication disruption / Secure Email gateways / Big‐
data security analytics / and Next Gen Firewalls. * Organizations may
deploy ENDPOINT device continuous monitoring and security management
functions. ENDPOINTs include but not limited to computers / servers / VMs /
tablets / smartphones / storage devices / hubs / any devices that connects to
the public Internet and external (Cloud) data centers. * Organizations can
308The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
be vigilant against Advance Persistent Threats (APTs) by implementing tools
that constantly monitor for Attacker reconnaissance / Attacker incursion /
Attacker response if discovered / Attacker capture of systems / Attacker
outbound communications and stolen data transfer.
Barriers:
False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff availability, and lack
of budget all could affect the organizations ability to investigate the
detection of cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
Organization can determine the consequences of various cyber incidents as it
relates to critical infrastructure. These consequences may include, but not
limited to impact to supply chain / degradation of public trust / financial and
market losses / degradation of brand reputation / impact to critical
infrastructure. * The organization and appropriate staff correlates incident
∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
information and individual incident response to achieve an organization‐wide
1:2009 4.3.4.5.6,
perspective on incident awareness and response. * The organization may
4.3.4.5.7, 4.3.4.5.8
RS.AN‐2: The impact also coordinate incident handling activities involving supply chain events with
∙ ISO/IEC
of the incident is other organizations involved in the supply chain. * Organizations may
27001:2013
understood catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. This lessons learned
A.16.1.6
catalog should include, but not limited to: malware behaviors / attacker
∙ NIST SP 800‐53
activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and
Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4
deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be
disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. * Organizations should
conduct frequent correlation of threat intelligence with collected network,
system, data, and storage information.
Technical Requirements:
309The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The organization implements a configurable capability to automatically
disable critical information systems and/or accounts if security incidents are
detected. * Organizations may implement ‘Continuous’ network, system,
data, and storage information collection, and alert upon deviations from
normal BASELINE asset behavior.
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in
the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response /
and specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff availability, and lack
of budget all could affect the organizations ability to investigate the
detection of cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may deploy a critical infrastructure
information system which provides an audit reduction and report generation
capability. Audit reduction is a process that manipulates collected audit
information and organizes such information in a summary format that is ∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
more meaningful to analysts. * Organizations may consider building a 3:2013 SR 2.8, SR
Security Team of staff with the following roles included, but not limited to: 2.9, SR 2.10, SR
Incident Responders / Digital Forensics / Investigators / Security Leadership / 2.11, SR 2.12, SR
RS.AN‐3: Forensics Compliance Auditor / Legal Professional / Security Operations * 3.9, SR 6.1
are performed Organizations can conduct frequent correlation of threat intelligence with ∙ ISO/IEC
collected network, system, data, and storage information. * Organizations 27001:2013
may catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. * This lessons A.16.1.7
learned catalog should include, but not limited to: malware behaviors / ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
attacker activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and Rev. 4 AU‐7, IR‐4
deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be
disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts.
Technical Requirements:
310The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Audit reduction capability can include, for example, modern data mining
techniques with advanced data filters to identify anomalous behavior in audit
records.. The report generation capability may be able to generate
customizable reports. * Organizations may consider deploying big‐data
technologies to aid in the storage and processing of vast volumes of collected
network/system data and information. * Organizations may conduct digital
forensic activities to determine what / when / and how a detected cyber
incident occurred.
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan may hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in
the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response /
and specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff availability, and lack
of budget all could affect the organizations ability to investigate the
detection of cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff can track and document critical
infrastructure information system security incidents. This may include
maintaining records about the incidents, the status of the incidents, and how
it was handling. * Organizations may catalog lessons learned from every
cyber incident. This lessons learned catalog may include, but not limited to: ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
malware behaviors / attacker activities during compromise / network‐ 1:2009 4.3.4.5.6
RS.AN‐4: Incidents system‐data anomalies and deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and ∙ ISO/IEC
are categorized software that can be disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. * 27001:2013
consistent with Organizations may share and learn Threat, Attack, Signature, and A.16.1.4
response plans remediation information with and from trusted organizations, government ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
entities and trusted peers. Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
IR‐5, IR‐8
Technical Requirements:
Automated mechanisms for tracking security incidents and
collecting/analyzing incident information include, for example, the Einstein
network monitoring device and monitoring online Computer Incident
Response Centers or other electronic databases of incidents.
311The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data.
Lack of internal cyber security expertise in the areas of investigation /
security analysis / forensics / incident response / specialized technologies will
hinder an effective response to an attack, breach or loss of data.
Operational Requirement(s):
An organization and appropriate staff can coordinate incident handling
activities with contingency planning activities. This may include coordinating
with mission/business owners, information system owners, authorizing
officials, human resources officials, and physical and personnel security
offices. * Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incident as rapidly as
possible and reach incident containment within 1 to 4 hours. Organizations
may track and measure performance times and seek ways to reduce time to
containment. ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
1:2009 4.3.4.5.6
Mitigation (RS.MI):
∙ ISA 62443‐3‐
Activities are Technical Requirements:
3:2013 SR 5.1, SR
performed to
RS.MI‐1: Incidents Incident‐related information may be obtained from a variety of sources, 5.2, SR 5.4
prevent expansion
are contained including, for example, audit monitoring, network monitoring, physical access ∙ ISO/IEC
of an event,
monitoring, user/administrator reports, and reported supply chain events. * 27001:2013
mitigate its effects,
Organizations should be vigilant against Advance Persistent Threats (APTs) by A.16.1.5
and eradicate the
implementing tools that constantly monitor for Attacker reconnaissance / ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
incident.
Attacker incursion / Attacker response if discovered / Attacker capture of Rev. 4 IR‐4
systems / Attacker outbound communications and stolen data transfer.
Barriers:
The hacker/attacker community has an endless capacity to advance their
missions, methods and attack technologies. Organizations are left to often
times guess a hacker’s/attacker’s next action and point of attack.
RS.MI‐2: Incidents Operational Requirement(s): ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
312The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
are mitigated For critical infrastructure, appropriate and adequate Operations staff can 1:2009 4.3.4.5.6,
implement incident handling measures for security incidents that includes 4.3.4.5.10
preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery. ∙ ISO/IEC
The measures implemented may include lessons learned from ongoing 27001:2013
incident handling activities. These measures should also be incorporated into A.12.2.1, A.16.1.5
training and testing exercises. * Organizations can strive to identify a ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
cyber incident as rapidly as possible and achieve full business recovery and Rev. 4 IR‐4
remediation within 1 to 24 hours. Organizations may track and measure
performance times and seek ways to reduce time to Recovery.
Technical Requirements:
The organization adopts automatic mechanisms to support the incident
handling process, for example, online incident management systems. The
organization may also deploy dynamic reconfiguration of information
systems to stop attacks, to misdirect attacks, and to isolate components of
system.
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in
the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response /
and specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
Numerous False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff
availability, and lack of budget all could affect the organizations ability to
investigate the detection of cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and appropriate staff may develop
RS.MI‐3: Newly a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring ∙ ISO/IEC
identified program. The program may include a list of organization units to be 27001:2013
vulnerabilities are monitored, the metrics in which to monitor them, and the frequency in A.12.6.1
mitigated or which to employ such monitoring. * The organization and appropriate ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
documented as staff can update this risk assessments frequently or whenever there are Rev. 4 CA‐7, RA‐3,
accepted risks significant changes to the information system. * Organizations can identify RA‐5
all possible threats and vulnerabilities to their assets, including, but not
limited to: Unauthorized Access / Data Breaches / Malware / DDoS /
313The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Advanced Persistent Threats / Zero‐day Attacks / Phishing / SQL Injections /
USB injected bots / and False alarms. * Organizations can catalog lessons
learned from every cyber incident. This lessons learned catalog may include,
but not limited to: malware behaviors / attacker activities during
compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and deviations from the
BASELINE / Applications and software that can be disabled / artifacts /
compromised system accounts.
Technical Requirements:
The organization should employ vulnerability scanning tools and techniques.
Organizations can employ these analysis approaches in a variety of tools, e.g.
web‐based applications scanners, static analysis tools, and binary analyzers.
Vulnerability scanning includes, for example: (1) scanning for patch levels; (2)
scanning for functions, ports, and protocols; (3) scanning for improperly
configured or improperly operation information flow control mechanisms.
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in
the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response /
and specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
Numerous False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff
availability, and lack of budget all could affect the organizations ability to
investigate the detection of cyber incidents.
Improvements Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
(RS.IM): The organization and appropriate staff should not only incorporate lessons BAI01.13
Organizational learned from within the organization and particular organization groups, but ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐
response activities RS.IM‐1: Response should continually coordinate with external service providers to ensure that 1:2009 4.3.4.5.10,
are improved by plans incorporate their capabilities are aligned with the organization. * Organizations can 4.4.3.4
incorporating lessons learned catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. This lessons learned ∙ ISO/IEC
lessons learned catalog can include, but not limited to: malware behaviors / attacker 27001:2013
from current and activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and A.16.1.6
previous deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
314The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
detection/response disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. Rev. 4CP‐2, IR‐4,
activities. IR‐8
Technical Requirements:
Lessons learned may be documented and stored/placed in an area or
directory where the organization's security staff can access.
Barriers:
Lack of an Incident Response Plan will hinder an effective response to an
attack, breach or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in
the areas of investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response /
and specialized technologies will hinder an effective response to an attack,
breach or loss of data.
Numerous False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff
availability, and lack of budget all could affect the organizations ability to
investigate the detection of cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization and appropriate staff may revisitthe developedresponse
strategies on a scheduled basis and re‐evaluate ongoing needs. This strategy
may be constantly reviewed and approved by appropriate staff leaders. *
Organizations may catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident. This
lessons learned catalog may include, but not limited to: malware behaviors /
RS.IM‐2: Response attacker activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
strategies are deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
updated disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts. IR‐8
Technical Requirements:
None
Barriers:
315The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Numerous False alarms, lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff
availability, and lack of budget all could affect the organizations ability to
keep their response strategies up to date.
Operational Requirement(s):
The organization provides for the recover and reconstitution of the critical
infrastructure information system to a known state after a disruption,
compromise, or failure. Reconstitution takes place following recovery and
includes activities for returning organizational information systems to fully
operational states. * Organizations can strive to identify a cyber incident as
Recovery Planning rapidly as possible and achieve full business recovery and remediation within
(RC.RP): Recovery 1 to 24 hours. * Organizations may track and measure performance times
∙ CCS CSC 8
processes and and seek ways to reduce time to Recovery.
∙ COBIT 5
procedures are
DSS02.05, DSS03.04
executed and RC.RP‐1: Recovery
Technology Requirement(s): ∙ ISO/IEC
maintained to plan is executed
The organization may consider DR technologies, systems, protocols, 27001:2013
ensure timely during or after an
networks, off‐site data storage facilities, and services. There may be more A.16.1.5
restoration of event
than adequate storage capacity, database capacity, and network bandwidth ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
systems or assets
to allow frequent backups of critical information and data. * Organizations Rev. 4 CP‐10, IR‐4,
RECOVER affected by
may wish to consider implementing complete full‐scale disaster recovery IR‐8
(RC) cybersecurity
technologies and service providers.
events.
Barriers:
There will be an additional CAPEX cost to procuringDR technologiesand off‐
site services like storage and data recovery.
There will be an additional OPEX cost to allocate, hire, train staff to be
responsible for Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Improvements Operational Requirement(s):
∙ COBIT 5
(RC.IM): Recovery The organization and appropriate staff should not only incorporate lessons
BAI05.07
planning and learned from within the organization and particular organization groups, but
RC.IM‐1: Recovery ∙ ISA 62443‐2‐1
processes are should continually coordinate with external service providers to ensure that
plans incorporate 4.4.3.4
improved by their capabilities are aligned with the organization. * Organizations can
lessons learned ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
incorporating catalog lessons learned from every cyber incident and how the business
Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
lessons learned functions were recovered. This lessons learned catalog can include, but not
IR‐8
into future limited to: Business Continuity(BC) / Disaster Recovery (DR) / malware
316The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
activities. behaviors / attacker activities during compromise / network‐system‐data
anomalies and deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software
that can be disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts.
Technical Requirements:
BC/DR Lessons learned may be documented and stored/placed in an area or
directory where the organization's security staff can access.
Barriers:
Lack of BC/DR Plans will hinder an effective recovery from an attack, breach
or loss of data. * Lack of internal cyber security expertise in the areas of
investigation / security analysis / forensics / incident response / and BC‐DR
technologies will hinder an effective recovery from an attack, breach or loss
of data.
Lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff availability, and lackof budget all
could affect the organizations ability to recover from cyber incidents.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, appropriate and adequate Operations staff may
implement incident handling measures for security incidents that includes
preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication, and recovery.
The measures implemented should include lessons learned from ongoing
incident handling activities. These measures may also be incorporated into ∙ COBIT 5
RC.IM‐2: Recovery training and testing exercises. * Organizations may catalog lessons learned BAI07.08
strategies are from every cyber incident and how the business functions were recovered. ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
updated This lessons learned catalog may include, but not limited to: Business Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4,
Continuity(BC) / Disaster Recovery (DR) / malware behaviors / attacker IR‐8
activities during compromise / network‐system‐data anomalies and
deviations from the BASELINE / Applications and software that can be
disabled / artifacts / compromised system accounts.
Technical Requirements:
317The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Automated technology can be implemented to supportthe incident handling
process. For example, online incident management systems. The
organization may also employ dynamic reconfiguration tools that are able to
reconfigure information systems if and when an attack occurs.
Barriers:
Lack of dedicated security staff, lack of staff availability, and lackof budget all
could affect the organizations ability to keep their Business Continuity and
Disaster Recovery strategies up to date.
Operational Requirement(s):
For critical infrastructure, the organization and supporting staff can identify
external compliance requirements and review, and adjust policies, principles,
standards, procedures and methodologies to ensure that legal regulatory,
Communications privacy and contractual requirements are addressed and communicated. *
(RC.CO): Organization may determine the consequences of various cyber incidents.
Restoration These consequences may include, but not limited to degradation of public
activities are trust / financial and market losses / degradation of brand reputation / impact
coordinated with to critical infrastructure. * Organizations may have appropriate press
internal and releases and official notifications prepared and delivered in a timely manner
external parties, RC.CO‐1: Public following a cyber incident. * Organizations can follow Industry standards,
∙ COBIT 5
such as relations are codes of good practice, and best practice guidance for adoption and
EDM03.02
coordinating managed adaptation.
centers, Internet
Service Providers,
TechnicalRequirements:
owners of
None
attacking systems,
victims, other
CSIRTs, and
Barriers:
vendors.
Some staff, executives, shareholders and board members may disagree with
the content and delivery time of press releases and official notifications.
RC.CO‐2: Reputation Operational Requirement(s): ∙ COBIT 5
318The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
after an event is For critical infrastructure, the organization and supporting staff may identify MEA03.02
repaired external compliance requirements and review, and adjust policies, principles,
standards, procedures and methodologies to ensure that legal regulatory and
contractual requirements are addressed and communicated. *
Organization can determine the consequences of various cyber incidents.
These consequences may include, but not limited to degradation of public
trust / financial and market losses / degradation of brand reputation / impact
to critical infrastructure. * Organizations can have appropriate press
releases and official notifications prepared and delivered in a timely manner
following a cyber incident. * Organizations can follow Industry standards,
codes of good practice, and best practice guidance for adoption and
adaptation.
TechnicalRequirements:
None
Barriers:
Some staff, executives, shareholders and board members may disagree with
the content and delivery time of press releases and official notifications.
OperationalRequirement(s):
The appropriate staff and organization leaders may identify essential
missions and business functions and their associated contingency
requirements. The organization then can provide contingency roles and
responsibilities to the appropriate individuals. Once finalized, the
RC.CO‐3: Recovery
organization may distribute copies of this plan, update the plan as need be,
activities are
and protect the plan from unauthorized disclosure or modification. * The
communicated to ∙ NIST SP 800‐53
organization can determine "who‐internally" needs to know "what"
internal stakeholders Rev. 4 CP‐2, IR‐4
information, "when" and "how" will that information be delivered. The
and executive and
organization can take into account "all" internal communications with: Tiers
management teams
I,II,III of operations, network ops centers, engineering, technical
management, program/project management, customer service, IT, sales, C‐
suite officials, billing, accounting, human resources, security offices etc. *
Once these communication paths and flows have been determined the
organization may set access controls‐ business process rules within various
319The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
systems to allow authorized personnel to reach their required information,
when they need it to perform their job function. * The entire flow of
information that describes who‐what‐when‐how should be documented and
conveyed through ongoing training, to the effected personnel.
Technical Requirements:
The organizations can ensure that secure, reliable electronic communications
(email, text, voice comms..........................................................., etc.) are in
place, so that appropriate personnel are alerted into action when an incident
response is required.
Barriers:
There may be an additional OPEX and CAPEX costs associated with back‐
up/redundant services from service providers and trusted 3rd parties who
may be needed in response to an incident.
Lack of formal, and Ad‐Hoc communications between sub‐organizations,
suppliers, and service providers before, during and in response to a cyber
incident, will hinder any effective incident response.
320The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.7 CYBER ECOSYSTEM AND DEPENDENCIES
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
321The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ....................................................................................... 323
II. Introduction .................................................................................................. 323
III. Feeder Group Structure ................................................................................ 323
IV. Background ................................................................................................... 324
V. Objective, Scope and Methodology .............................................................. 324
A. Objectives ............................................................................................... 324
B. Scope ...................................................................................................... 324
C. Methodology .......................................................................................... 325
VI. Results and Findings ...................................................................................... 326
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................. 331
VIII. Appendices .................................................................................................. 332
A. APPENDIX – A Graphical Depictions of the Internet and Communications
Ecosystem ........................................................................................... 332
B. APPENDIX – B Textual Descriptions of the Internet and Communications
Ecosystem Categories ......................................................................... 339
322The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Communications in today’s world, takes on numerous meanings, over numerous types of
networks, through numerous technologies. To explain today’s communications ecosystem, one
has to use diagrams, graphics and text in order to capture and explain all of the nuances in
today’s complicated communications environment. The CSRIC IV‐WG4 ecosystem work
products were developed and drafted based on the types of experiences that consumers,
businesses, and governments experience through their use of the Internet and the public
switched telephone networks. The textual and graphical ecosystem representations included in
this document are devoid of any competitive, regulatory, political or economic characteristics
of today’s communications environment.
It is recommended that a deeper investigation, a larger data gathering and graphing effort take
place to compare the weight of the economic and socio‐economic impacts that each ecosystem
category and major players have on society, in order to fully describe our communications
ecosystem.
II. INTRODUCTION
The Ecosystem Feeder group of the CSRIC IV – Working Group 4, was tasked with graphically
and textually depicting the Internet Ecosystem, so that the greater CSRIC IV‐ WG4 can use this
work product as tools in their individual segment analysis. This overall ecosystem depiction is
to also include Communications Sector specific dependencies on other ecosystem categories
and factors that will aid in keeping the Communications Sector cyber‐secure.
III. FEEDER GROUP STRUCTURE
The Ecosystem Feeder Group consists of the members listed below.
Name Company
Co-Chair: Thomas Soroka Jr USTelecom
Co-Chair: Brian Scarpelli TIA
Vern Mosley FCC
Mike Alagna Motorola
Nadya Bartol Utilities Telecom Council
Jim Bean Juniper Networks
Chris Boyer AT&T
Joel Capps Ericsson
Inette Furey DHS
Stacy Hartman CenturyLink
Joe Viens Time Warner Cable
Danna Valsecchi Verizon
Rao Vasireddy Alcatel-Lucent
Matt Tooley NCTA
Christian Vogler Gallaudet University
Ray Singh ACS
Kate Dean USISPA
Table 2 - List of Working Group Members
323The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IV. BACKGROUND
The foundational objective of the CSRIC IV‐ WG4 is to address the question:
How will CSRIC IV‐WG4’s product help companies in the five Communications Sector segments
contribute to their capacity to assure appropriate internal and external stakeholders of the
sufficiency of their own cyber risk management practices?
V. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
A. Objectives
Drawn from the above stated WG4 objective, the ecosystem feeder group’s primary
objective is to depict the Internet and Communications ecosystem via graphic and textual
“tools”, such that the WG4 segments and subgroups can easily identify where their
segments fit into the Ecosystem and can ensure that their analysis considers all aspects of
the Internet and Communications ecosystem.
A secondary objective of the ecosystem feeder group is to analyze what cyber‐security
dependencies exist between the Communications Sector and other aspects of the Internet
and communications Ecosystem. The work product deliverables of the ecosystem feeder
group are to be used as tools by the WG4 segments and subgroups in their analysis.
B. Scope
The ecosystem feeder group is tasked with delivering graphical and textual depictions of
the Internet ecosystem, Communications Sector cybersecurity dependencies, and a
mapping of network layers to ecosystem categories and to cyber‐attacks and threats.
Ecosystem Graphic Depictions: The Ecosystem team looked at several ways to graph,
diagram and graphically depict the Internet and Communications ecosystem. The
Ecosystem team also looked at previous work done by various entities within private
industry and the U.S. Government to depict the Internet and Communications
ecosystem. You will find all of the chosen Ecosystem graphic depictions in Appendix‐A
of Section VIII of this document.
Ecosystem Category Descriptions: Once the Ecosystem categories were identified, the
ecosystem feeder group drafted descriptions for every identified category. These
descriptions focused on what functions the companies in these categories conducted,
how they delivered their services and several examples of real world providers in each
category. You will find all of the Ecosystem category descriptions in Appendix‐B of
Section VIII of this document.
Ecosystem & Communications Sector Dependencies: Following the Ecosystem
Category identification exercise, the Ecosystem team looked at each individual category
and listed what that particular category depended on to make it cyber secure. We
answered the question “If I were an Ecosystem Category, What would I depend on to
324The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
keep me cyber secure?” After we determined the dependencies for each of the
Ecosystem categories, we narrowed the dependencies down to only the
Communications Sector. The ecosystem feeder group answered the question:
“If I were a member of the Communications Sector, what other Ecosystem categories
would I depend on to keep me Cyber secure?”
You will find the Communications Sector dependencies in the Results and Findings
Section VI of this document.
Ecosystem Category Mapping to TCP/IP Layers and Cyber Attacks: Following the
dependency exercise, the ecosystem feeder group conducted the following:
 Identified the major network and computing protocols that resided in each of the
TCP/IP model layers.
 Mapped all of the identified Ecosystem categories to one or more TCP/IP layers,
depending on where these categories operated in the Ecosystem. Some categories
operate in a single TCP/IP layer, while some categories operate in multiple layers of
the TCP/IP model.
 Mapped known cyber‐attacks, threats and breaches to specific layers of the TCP/IP
model, based on what protocols or layers were attacked and exploited.
 Created a ‘Definitions Key’, for the reader to understand the various acronyms used
in this chart.
This mapping chart can be read in several ways. When starting with cyber‐attacks and
threats, they are associated with specific networking and computing protocols, so a
particular Attack or Threat and its Vector can be seen on this chart. Any service provider
that operates in one or more of the TCP/IP layers or those set of protocols, should be aware
of these types of attacks. The CSRIC W4 will determine potential actions and possible best
practices for these service providers to consider.
Another way of reading this chart starts with the Ecosystem categories listed in the left
column. The Ecosystem categories listed are associated with various specific networking
and computing protocols, so a particular Ecosystem category can identify which known
cyber‐attacks have taken place in its operating space. Any service provider that operates in
one or more Ecosystem categories should be aware of these types of attacks. The CSRIC W4
will determine potential actions and possible best practices for these service providers to
consider.
You will find the Ecosystem‐TCP/IP layers‐Cyber Attack mapping in the Results and Findings
in Section VI of this document.
C. Methodology
The ecosystem feeder group began this effort by identifying as many Internet and
communications companies as possible, (labeled as ‘Players’) that affected the lives of
325The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
consumers, businesses, and governments. If a large number of players were identified to
operate in a single category, then they were consolidated into that given category. These
‘players’ were listed in column A of a spreadsheet.
The ecosystem feeder group then proceeded to identify major Ecosystem categories like;
access providers, backbone network operators, hardware vendors, operating system
vendors etc. These Internet and communications ecosystem categories were listed across
row A in the same spreadsheet as the previously identified players.
The ecosystem feeder group proceeded to check for intersecting cells in this spreadsheet to
determine what categories the major ‘players’ operated in, and applied a color to the
intersecting cells in this spreadsheet. It soon became very graphically obvious that, many
large well‐known companies operate in many categories across our communications
ecosystem. Some even operated from operating systems all the way through fiber
backbone network operators.
Once the Internet and Communications ecosystem categories were identified and vetted by
the group, the next task was to identify the individual category dependencies, by answering
the question: “If I were an Ecosystem Category, What would I depend on to keep me cyber
secure?”
The ecosystem feeder group then proceeded to focus on the Communications Sector
ecosystem categories and identified their specific cybersecurity dependencies on the
remaining ecosystem categories. The Communications Sector categories were listed across
Row A of a new spreadsheet and the remaining ecosystem categories were listed in column
A of this new spreadsheet. The ecosystem feeder group identified Communications Sector
dependencies by answering the question: “If I were a member of the Communications
Sector, what other Ecosystem categories would I depend on to keep me Cyber secure?”
It soon became very graphically obvious that, the Communications Sector relied on
numerous other ecosystem categories to keep itself, as a sector, cyber secure.
VI. RESULTS AND FINDINGS
The Internet and communications ecosystem is a constantly growing, rapidly changing,
complex system of suppliers, networks and consumers that requires continuous attention to
the security of its components and availability to its end users.
The ecosystem feeder group identified 27 unique Ecosystem categories like; access providers,
backbone network operators, hardware vendors, operating system vendors etc. It became very
graphically obvious that, many well‐known companies operate in numerous categories across
the Internet and Communications ecosystem. Some even operated in diverse areas that ranged
from operating systems all the way through fiber network operations. These companies serve a
multitude of critical functions across the Internet and communications experiences of
consumers, enterprises, and government entities alike.
326The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Cyber‐attacks have been observed and mapped to every layer of the TCP/IP communication
model, and subsequently against every identified category of the ecosystem.
Cyber‐attacks will continue to occur at every level of the TCP/IP communications model. It is
imperative that all operators and vendors in every layer of the TCP/IP model conduct their
operations with the highest level of cyber security diligence, to prevent crippling attacks on
their own operations and/or passing potential threats through their communications layer and
possibly crippling adjacent entities within the ecosystem.
The Communications Sector depends on multiple non‐Communications Sector ecosystem
categories to make itself and its end users cyber secure.
As a result of the research and analysis conducted by the ecosystem feeder group conducted
within the timeline of the CSRIC IV‐WG4, the following observations, results and findings were
made.
 Several companies occupy numerous ecosystem categories ranging from operating
system vendors, device vendors through fiber access network operators. Since these
companies serve a multitude of critical functions across the Internet and
communications experiences of consumers, enterprises, and government entities, they
must conduct all of their operations in a cyber‐secure manner, or risk attacks that could
cripple their operations, and negatively impact their line of business.
 Cyber‐attacks have occurred and will continue to occur at every level of the TCP/IP
communications model. It is imperative that all operators and vendors in every layer of
the TCP/IP model conduct their business and operations with the highest level of cyber
security diligence, or risk having attacks cripple their own operations and/or pass
through their communications layer and possibly cripple adjacent entities within the
ecosystem. Cyber‐attacks have been observed at every layer of the TCP/IP
communication model, and subsequently against every category of the ecosystem, as
seen in this chart and definitions below:
327The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Ecosystem to TCP/IP Layers to Cyber Attack Mapping
328The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
329The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The Communications Sector depends on multiple non-Communications Sector ecosystem
categories to make itself and end users cyber secure, as seen in this chart below:
Communications Sector ‐ Ecosystem Dependencies
330The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The charter of the CSRIC IV‐WG4 ecosystem feeder group was to depict the Internet and
communications ecosystem and determine Communications Sector cyber‐security
dependencies. The conclusions that can be drawn from the work that was completed by this
feeder group are as follows:
 The Internet and communications ecosystem is a constantly growing, rapidly changing,
complex system of suppliers, networks and consumers that requires continuous
attention to the security of its components and availability to its end users.
 The ecosystem feeder group identified 27 unique Ecosystem categories like; access
providers, backbone network operators, hardware vendors, operating system vendors
etc. It became very graphically obvious that, many well‐known companies operate in
numerous categories across the Internet and Communications ecosystem. Some even
operated in diverse areas that ranged from operating systems all the way through fiber
network operations. These companies serve a multitude of critical functions across the
Internet and communications experiences of consumers, enterprises, and government
entities alike.
 Cyber‐attacks have been observed and mapped to every layer of the TCP/IP
communication model, and subsequently against every identified category of the
ecosystem.
 Cyber‐attacks will continue to occur at every level of the TCP/IP communications model.
It is imperative that all operators and vendors in every layer of the TCP/IP model
conduct their operations with the highest level of cyber security diligence, to prevent
crippling attacks on their own operations and/or passing potential threats through their
communications layer and possibly crippling adjacent entities within the ecosystem.
 The Communications Sector depends on multiple non‐Communications Sector
ecosystem categories to make itself and its end users cyber secure.
 It is recommended that further Internet and communications ecosystem studies be
conducted to include the number of end users of each ecosystem player and category,
and to determine social, governmental and economic impacts of the Internet and
Communications ecosystem and its availability.
331The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. APPENDICES
A. APPENDIX – A Graphical Depictions of the Internet and Communications Ecosystem
One of the more comprehensive ‘Ecosystem’ diagrams comes from a joint
industry/government partnership called the U.S. Communications Sector Coordinating
Council (CSCC). The ecosystem feeder group determined that this diagram captured a large
number of the categories of the Ecosystem that were previously identified and it was an
excellent depiction of the various ‘Cyber’ Ecosystem relationships within the
Communications Sector. This CSCC diagram was shared with the ecosystem feeder group
and is shown below:
Communications Sector Coordinating Council:
Cyber Ecosystem Players
Cyber Ecosystem Players
User/ Device Provider Infrastructure Application
Core
Device Provider Edge Provider /Content
Internet Control Internet Control Internet Control
MobilityUE O/S (DNS/BP Gla Pn /e TC P/IP) (DNS/BP Gla Pn /e T CP/IP) (DNS/BP Gla Pn /e T CP/IP) OTT Comm.
DNS & IP
Macro Wireless
Registrars | CAs
CPE Public Peering
Embedded
Social Networks
Systems Wi‐Fi Cloud
Provider‐mgd.
Private Peering
Gateway
Broadband Hosting
OEM Video
Private Network
M2M/IoT
High‐Speed s
CDN
Access
AV/IDS/MD
Applications
Corporations M Satellite Mobility EPC MSS
Standards/Policies/Practices (e.g., IETF)
Physical Security
Malicious Actors
The ecosystem feeder group analyzed numerous ‘ecosystem’ diagrams developed by
several industry‐governments working groups and selected several comprehensive
332The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
diagrams. These graphic depictions of the Internet & Communications Ecosystem are to be
used as tools to understand various categories, players and the roles they play in our
Internet experiences. The sources of these Ecosystem diagrams are listed above each
diagram, and the unique information that can be drawn from each diagram is below each
diagram.
The Internet Ecosystem: Internet Society
(http://www.isoc.org)
This ISOC diagram of the Internet Ecosystem shows the various ‘influences’ and
‘influencers’ of the Internet. The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), made
up of international participants, has developed the critical protocols, and
approved standards that enable the Internet to operate and communicate on a
truly global scale.
333The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
We Are the Web: Google
(https://www.google.com/takeaction/we-are-the-web/)
This diagram from Google depicts the Internet’s ever growing roots and timeline
of growth along with the massive scales of the various users, producers, and
communicators of the global Internet tree.
334The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Beecham Research: Internet of Things
(http://beechamtech.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/M2M1.jpg)
This diagram from Beecham Research breaks the Internet Ecosystem into
Service Sectors, Application User‐groups, Locations and End‐user physical
devices. This diagram is a great depiction of the ever growing “Internet of
Things” (IoT). The more of these devices and technologies we develop, the more
they become connected to the global Internet.
335The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Federal Communications Commission: National Broadband Plan-
(http://transition.fcc.gov/national-broadband-plan/national-broadband-plan.pdf)
These two diagrams depict the Internet and Broadband Ecosystem from the
perspective of the F.C.C. and the National Broadband Plan. It shows the
relationship between the publicly available Internet and the critical
infrastructure that is needed to serve the population with critical government
functions. The concentric circles also show the various layers upon which
communications and services begin their journey with access to networks, they
get aggregated onto larger networks, and ultimately transported over critical,
high capacity backbone networks.
336The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Technology, Access, Interest, Channel / Screen, Internet, Media, Operator Model:
Juhani Risku
(http://abstractionshift.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/11_taic_simo_technology‐access‐
interest‐channel_screen‐internet‐media‐operator_businesses_logos_juhani_risku_2011.pdf)
This diagram developed by Juhani Risku also shows the various layers that make
up the Internet Ecosystem, but the actual companies and corporations that
touch our Internet lives are also shown in this diagram. It’s very important to
observe that various companies land in multiple layers of the Ecosystem and
cannot be characterized as a single “type” of company.
337The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TAIC‐SIMO Operator/Network Model:
Juhani Risku‐
(http://interestmachine.wordpress.com/taic‐simo‐model/operator‐network‐model/)
Another diagram from Juhani Risku, simplifies the more complex ecosystem
diagrams into a much smaller subset of building blocks that make up the
Internet Ecosystem. Our interests dictate what type of media (TV, Radio, Email,
Internet, Text, Social Media etc.) we wish to use to consume these interests. The
media that we choose dictates what types of technologies and networks we
wish to buy and use. The technologies that we choose to use, will dictate the
types of access required, and through what channels this access can be
obtained.
This pie chart shows the global consumption of the Internet Ecosystem, and the
demand for Internet access across the globe.
338The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. APPENDIX – B Textual Descriptions of the Internet and Communications Ecosystem
Categories
The categories described below are the various categories that the ecosystem feeder group
has identified. Each of these categories serves a specific and unique function within our
Internet and communications experiences.
1) Backbone Network Operators
Backbone operators combine high speed transport services, such as DWDM
wavelengths and/or SONET circuits, with a set of high capacity routers to create IP
and MPLS networks that cover broad geographic regions. These regions can be
national or international in scope. The Backbone network operators connect with
other backbone and regional providers over public and private peerings to provide
global Internet connectivity. The services provided by backbone operators include
high speed business Internet service to Enterprises and to other Internet Service
Providers. They also provide packet transport services based on IP and MPLS.
Service providers such as Level 3, AT&T, and CenturyLink provide backbone network
operations. Backbone Network operators typically also provide additional services
on top of the backbone networks.
2) Access Network Operators
Cable Operators, also known as multi‐system operators (MSOs) are service
providers that in whole or in part receive signals transmitted or programs broadcast
by one or more television broadcast stations licensed by the FCC, and makes
secondary transmissions of such signals or other programs by wires, cables,
microwave, or other communications channels, as well as other content received
via satellite, to subscribing members of the public who pay for such service.
Examples of Cable Operators include Comcast, Time‐Warner Cable, and Cox
Communications.
xDSL refers to the sum total of digital subscriber line (DSL) technologies that utilize
telephone exchanges to provide Internet transmissions to subscribers of the service.
xDSL typically provides “last‐mile technologies”; i.e. are used between a telephone
switching station and a home or office, and not between switching stations; and
vary in transmission methods based on the service provider, equipment used,
geographical location and the customer.
Fiber To The Node (FTTn) is defined as optical fiber to a node in an area to provide a
group of subscribers with Internet service, with the “last‐mile” connection typically
provided via xDSL or coaxial copper wire. FTTn solutions use a hybrid configuration
to deliver data over more efficient fiber optic lines for the majority of the data
transmission while utilizing already existing connections to subscribers from local
nodes. Examples of FTTn operators include AT&T’s U‐verse and Verizon FiOS.
WiFi is a wireless local area network (WLAN) that is based on the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers' (IEEE) 802.11 standard series. Wi‐Fi allows an
electronic device to exchange data or connect to the Internet using 2.4 GHz UHF
339The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
and 5 GHz SHF radio waves, and in this way typically provide wireless “last‐mile”
connectivity. Examples of Wi‐Fi applications include free Wi‐Fi connectivity at
businesses such as Starbucks and Panera Bread.
Satellite Operators are service providers that enable service to subscribers for a fee
utilizing satellite transmissions from base stations to end users. In this way satellite
operators provide television, voice, and Internet service to end‐users. Examples of
satellite operators include Globalstar and Intelsat.
3) Wireless Network Operators
Wireless Network Operators are entities which operate wireless networks, be they
licensed or unlicensed. Wireless networks provide connectivity over
Mobile Network Operators are wireless communications service providers that own
or control the necessary network components to sell and deliver services to an end
user. These components include radio spectrum allocation, wireless network
infrastructure, backhaul infrastructure, billing, customer care, provisioning
computer systems and marketing and repair organizations. Examples of MNOs are
AT&T, Sprint, T‐Mobile and Verizon Wireless.
Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) are companies that provides mobile
phone services, but do not have their own licensed frequency allocation of radio
spectrum, nor the infrastructure required to provide mobile telephone service. A
MVNO attains access through agreements with mobile network operators to obtain
bulk access to network services at wholesale rates, and then sets retail prices
independently. Examples of MVNOs are 420 Wireless, Boost Mobile, and Cricket
Wireless.
4) Internet Service Providers
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are the businesses and organizations that provide
users with Internet access and related services. ISPs typically provide
telecommunications services including data communications access and telephone
connection. Examples of ISPs include Comcast, AT&T, and Comcast. There are
numerous types of ISPs:
i. Access ISPs employ a variety of technologies to facilitate consumers’
connection to their network. These technologies may include broadband or
dialup. Always‐on types of broadband connections comprise cable, fiber
optic service (FiOS), DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) and satellite. A number of
access providers also provide email and hosting services.
ii. Mailbox ISPs offer email mailbox hosting services and email servers to send,
receive and store email. Many mailbox ISPs are also access providers.
iii. Hosting ISPs offer email, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), web‐hosting services,
virtual machines, clouds and physical servers.
iv. Transit ISPs provide large amounts of bandwidth needed to connect hosting
ISPs and access ISPs together.
340The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
v. Virtual ISPs (VISP) purchase services from other ISPs to allow customers
Internet access.
vi. Free ISPs (freenets) provide service free of charge and often display
advertisements while users are connected.
5) Content Delivery Network (CDN) Operators
Content Delivery Network (CDN) operators are companies that provide services to
improve network performance by distributing content to cache or edge servers
located geographically close to users, which deliver copies of content to end‐users.71
CDN operator services maximize bandwidth, improve accessibility and maintain
correctness through content replication, offering fast and reliable applications and
services through some combination of content‐delivery, request‐routing,
distribution and accounting infrastructure. Examples of CDN operators include
Akamai, Limelight, Level3, Verizon and Google.
6) Business VPN & VoIP Service Providers
Business VPN/VoIP operators are companies that use IP and MPLS transport
networks along with specialized network elements to create the higher level
services. The business VPN/VoIP operators can either use their own infrastructure,
or the transport networks of one or more backbone operators to provide the
connectivity for their services. VPN services involve the creation of “private”
networks that are isolated at the IP layer but share the same underlying packet
transport infrastructure. VoIP services are provided over SIP trunks, to a set of voice
processing systems that use IP as a transport mechanism, along with
interconnections to other VoIP networks and to the Public Switch Telephone
Network (PSTN). The services provided by business VPN/VoIP providers are virtual
private networks and voice SIP trunks to enterprises or other service providers. The
VPNs and SIP trunks may be isolated, or may connect to the Internet or other VPNs
over carefully controlled interconnections through Session Border Controllers
(SBCs). The voice services can include internet voice services for a company as well
as interconnection to the PSTN and long distance services. Examples of Business
VPN/VoIP operators are XO Communications, 8X8, Vonage and Masergy
Communications.
7) Cloud (XaaS) Operators
Cloud (XaaS) Operators refer to companies providing an increasing number of IT
functions that physically resides in a data center and are delivered over the Internet
to the end user, rather than provided locally or on‐site as a service. Cloud operators
create, maintain and scale computing solutions like CPU capacity, memory storage,
and database infrastructure for customers. All service management, software
71 See Pathan, A. and Buyya, R., Grid Computing and Distributed Systems Laboratory, A Taxonomy and Survey of
Content Delivery Networks (2007), available at http://www.cloudbus.org/reports/CDN‐Taxonomy.pdf.
341The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
updates, resource replacement, and scaling is done remotely, typically implemented
with large homogeneous data centers with virtual servers and virtual networks.
There are numerous types of Cloud (Xaas) Operators:
i. Software as a Service (SaaS) Operators are companies that, through
software licensing and a delivery model which is centrally hosted. SaaS
Operators provide many business applications (office & messaging software,
management software, computer‐aided design [CAD] software, accounting
software, customer relationship management [CRM] software, etc.) to end
users. Examples of SaaS providers include Microsoft 365, Cisco WebEx, and
Salesforce.
ii. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Operators are companies that allow an
organization outsource equipment to that owned by the IaaS operator to
support operations, including storage, hardware, servers and networking
components based on the consumption of the user. Examples of IaaS
operators include Amazon Web Service (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google
Compute Engine (GCE).
iii. Platform as a Service (PaaS) Operators provide cloud components to end
users’ software, providing a framework the end user can build upon to
develop or customize applications. PaaS operators aim to make the
development, testing, and deployment of applications more efficient and
cost‐effective. Examples of PaaS operators include Apprenda, LongJump, and
IBM SmartCloud.
iv. Network as a Service (NaaS) Operators provide a service in which the
capability provided to the cloud service customer is transport, connectivity
and related network capabilities. An example of a NaaS provider is Level3
Communications.
v. Cloud Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are companies that build out
physical data center resources like buildings, commercial and backup power
plants, fuel generators, fiber connectivity and in most cases equipment
racks. Once they build out this data center infrastructure, they then can
lease these resources to customers who wish to rapidly deploy their cloud
services and do not wish to invest in the physical plant of a cloud data
center. Examples of Cloud Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are Digital
Realty Trust, Equinix, Dupont‐Fabros, and RackSpace.
342The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
8) Over‐The‐Top (OTT) Service Providers
Over‐The‐Top (OTT) Service Providers are service providers that provide end user
access to audio, video, and other content over the Internet rather than via a service
provider’s own dedicated, managed network. OTT service providers deliver content
directly from content producer to the end user using an Internet connection,
independent of the end user’s ISP and without any infrastructure investment on the
part of the provider.
i. OTT Video Streaming Service Providers are companies that provide video
content to end users using the OTT model. Examples of OTT video streaming
service providers include Netflix, Hulu, and Crackle.
ii. OTT Television On‐Demand Service Providers are companies that provide
television content at the time preferred by the end user (“on demand”)
using the OTT model. OTT television on‐demand systems can either stream
content through a set‐top box, a computer or other device, allowing viewing
in real time, or download it to a device such as a computer, digital video
recorder (also called a personal video recorder) or portable media player for
viewing at any time. Examples of OTT television on‐demand service
providers include Apple, Google, NBC On Demand and CBS On Demand.
iii. OTT VoIP Service Providers are providers of voice services using the OTT
model. These services allow for a user to avoid paying for the dedicated
phone line as is the case with traditional telephony, and relies on the
underlying service provider’s connection to the Internet. Examples of OTT
VoIP Service Providers include Vonage, Skype, Viber, and MagicJack.
9) Online Content Producers/Distributors
Online Content Producers/ Distributors are organizations that create, edit and
arrange text, video, audio, images and other materials that may be included in an
Internet‐based forum.
i. Video Producers are entities that create video by capturing moving images,
and creating combinations and reductions of parts of this video in live
production and post‐production. Examples of video producers include 20th
Century Fox and Dreamworks. Once video content is compiled, it can be
offered to the public via content distributors like broadcast networks, cable
networks, and over the top players like Netflix and Google’s YouTube.
ii. Photograph Producers are entities that create photographs, and create
photography content through image manipulation. Once the photographers
produce their photographic files, they can sell them or offer them via Photo
distributors. Examples of photo distributors include iStock Photo and
Shutterstock.
iii. Blogs are websites or web pages on which an individual record opinions, link
to other sites, etc., on a regular basis.
343The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
10) Applications Producers/Distributors
Application Developers are people, companies and entities that write computer
programs to meet specific requirements, including the determination of
requirements as well as testing of the software application. Applications enable
features and services for devices across the consumer and business sectors.
Examples of application developers of all sizes, from all over the world. Application
developers can range from companies like IBM to two kids in a garage.
Application Distributors are entities that allow end users to peruse and download
applications, whether at no cost or for a fee. Examples of application distributors
include Sourceforge, Apple's App Store and Google Play.
11) Hardware/Software/OS/CPE Vendors
Backbone & Access Hardware Systems: Vendors supply the HW/SW/OS that are the
critical components of the communications industry. These components are
typically located on carrier premises, customer (enterprise/residential) premises,
cloud/ data centers, or any combination. They include user devices, Network Access
systems, Controllers, Switching, Signaling and Routing Systems, applications to
invoke services. In addition to the hardware components, the vendors also offer
systems that are capable of monitoring network fault conditions, configuration
management, device management (e.g.,. MDM), security and performance. The
applications and software is developed open as well proprietary software and
hardware systems in compliance with industry standards and best practices. The
trend is to use virtualization for systems as well security applications. These
components typically have built‐in fundamental security capabilities such as
authentication, encryption, and packet filtering on the bearer, control and
management interfaces and also provide security logging for downstream
processing. Due to the complexity of network solutions many vendors offer
managed security services to their customers. Examples of hardware vendors
include Alcatel‐Lucent, Juniper, Cisco, and Adtran.
Operating System Vendors are entities that provide software that manages
computer hardware and software resources to end users. This software provides
common services for computer programs and allows applications a platform on
which to function. Examples of operating system vendors include Microsoft
(Windows), Apple(OSX/IoS) and Google(Android).
Browser Vendors are entities that provide software programs used to navigate the
Internet with a graphical user interface for display of HTML files. Browsers allow end
users to retrieve, present and traverse web pages, images, videos or other pieces of
content on the Internet. Examples of browser vendors include Mozilla(FireFox),
Microsoft(Windows), Apple(Safari), and Google(Chrome).
12) eCommerce Companies
eCommerce Companies are companies which conduct commerce by way of the
Internet or other electronic networks. The widespread use of the Internet, access to
344The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
new sales channels have greatly benefitted both to traditional “brick and mortar”
establishments as well as new online retailers. Notable examples of eCommerce
companies include eBay, Craigslist, and Amazon.
13) Edge Device Companies (Smartphones, Tablets, IoT gadgets)
Edge device companies are companies which produce devices that reside on the
periphery of an enterprise or service provider network, providing entry points into
these networks. Examples of these devices range from a laptop, smartphone, tablet,
smart meter, router, etc. Examples of edge device companies include Apple,
Samsung, Nokia and LG.
14) Social Media Companies
Social Media Companies are companies that provide applications which enable
users to create and share content, or to participate in the creation and exchange of,
user‐generated content. Examples of social media companies include Facebook,
LinkedIn, and Pinterest.
15) Internet Service Infrastructure Clearinghouses
Infrastructure Clearinghouses are companies that perform an intermediary function
between service providers and a large group of end users. These clearinghouses
usually perform functions that are vital to the business success of many smaller
sized companies that cannot afford the massive investment to perform these
functions themselves. An example of this is Intrado. They connect numerous small
telecom companies to an ability to route E911 calls to the correct Public Serving
Access Point (PSAP). Rather than buy and build numerous dedicated selective
routers for E911 calls, these smaller Telecom companies can purchase this function
from Intrado. Intrado already has built out the connectivity to the PSAPs, so when
these smaller Telecom companies connect to Intrado, they can reach the necessary
PSAPs that will serve their customers. Verisign performs DNS queries and responses
necessary to enable end users to find websites on the Internet. Neustar operates
numbering databases that supports the North American Numbering Plan. They also
run various DNS operations to enable the various functions of the Internet to work.
These clearinghouses offer unique functions and services at a wholesale level and
provide vital services that communications providers need to fulfill their business
models. As previously mentioned, examples of these Infrastructure Clearinghouses
include Verisign, Neustar, Intrado, iconnectiv, and the Internet Society.
16) End Users (Consumers, Enterprise, Governments)
End Users are the ultimate consumers of any final product or service, regardless of
their segment or purpose. For example, this category includes but is not limited to
private consumers, enterprise users, and government users.
345The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
17) Relay Service Providers
A Relay Service Provider is an operator that allows end users with auditory or visual
definitions. These services take place through a variety of platforms, such as text
relays through instant messaging, websites, TTYs, or video relays through
videophones. These services are subsidized by the FCC’s Telecommunications Relay
Service (TRS) Fund. Relay service providers can be divided into two categories:
i. Telecommunications Relay Service Providers are entities who are deaf,
hard‐of‐hearing, deaf‐blind, or have a speech disorder to place calls to
standard telephone users via a keyboard or assistive device. Relay services
typically are enabled real‐time text capable technology such as a personal
computer, laptop, mobile phone, PDA, and many other devices. Examples of
relay service providers include Purple Communications and Sorenson.
ii. Video Relay Service (VRS) Providers enable persons with hearing disabilities
who use American Sign Language (ASL) to communicate with voice
telephone users through video equipment, rather than through typed text.
Video equipment links the VRS user with a TRS operator – called a
“communications assistant” (CA) – so that the VRS user and the CA can see
and communicate with each other in signed conversation. Examples of VRS
Service Providers include
18) Security Vendors
Anti‐virus Software Vendors are entities that provide computer software used to
prevent, detect and remove malicious computer viruses. Anti‐virus software works
against other types of malware, such as backdoors, trojan horses, worms, adware,
and spyware. Examples of Anti‐virus software vendors include McAfee and
Symantec.
Firewalls & Security Appliance Vendors are entities that provide software or
hardware‐based network security system that controls the incoming and outgoing
network traffic based on applied rule set. A firewall establishes a barrier between a
trusted, secure internal network and another network that is not assumed to be
secure and trusted. Examples of firewall vendors include Cisco Systems and Juniper
Networks.
Intrusion Detection/Deep Packet Inspection Vendors are entities that provide
computer software or hardware that enables network packet filtering of a packet as
it passes an inspection point, searching for protocol non‐compliance, viruses, spam,
intrusions, or defined criteria to decide whether the packet may pass or if it needs
to be routed to a different destination, or for the purpose of collecting statistical
information. This software enables advanced network management, user service,
346The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
and security functions. Examples of intrusion detection/deep packet inspection
vendors include Ericsson and Nokia Siemens Networks.
19) International Service Providers
Global Network Operators
A Global Network Operator is an organization which offers network services across
borders. Global Network Operators provide the means for connectivity on a global
basis in both wireless and wired space. Examples of Global Network Operators
include Deutsche Telekom, TATA Communications, and Nippon Telegraph and
Telephone Corporation (NTT).
Global Content Producers
A Global Content Producer is an organization which provides services in the form of
content to end users over the Internet of Things (IoT) or a CDN. Examples of Global
Content Providers include Comcast, Walt Disney, and Time Warner, Yahoo and
Google.
20) Research Institutions
Think Tanks are organizations that perform research and advocacy concerning any
topic of interest. Think tanks may be non‐ or for‐profit, and may be funded by
private and/or government entities. Examples of think tanks include the Information
Technology & Innovation Foundation and the Technology Policy Institute.
Academia is the community of students and scholars engaged in higher education
and research within the university education system. Academia is non‐profit, and
may be funded by private and/or government entities. Examples of academia are
the University of Virginia and the Illinois Institute of Technology.
Associations are typically nonprofit organizations formed around a particular
profession, the interests of individuals engaged in that profession, and the public
interest. Associations engage other stakeholders (government or private) on behalf
of their membership across contexts. Examples of associations include the Internet
Association, CTIA – The Wireless Association, The Telecommunication Industry
Association‐TIA, National Cable TV Association –NCTA, the National
Telecommunications Cooperative Association‐NTCA and the US Telecom
Association.
21) Regulators
A regulatory agency is a government agency that regulates businesses in the public
interest. An independent regulatory agency operates independent of the Executive
Branch/President and is typically established by the Congress. Regulators can be
Federal, State, Local, as well as International.
 Federal Federal Regulators are United States executive branch departments and
agencies or independent departments and agencies having responsibility for
developing and enforcing rules and regulations in accordance with the Code of
347The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Federal Regulations (CFR).72 Title 47 of the CFR addresses the
Telecommunications federal rules and regulations. It assigns
telecommunications regulatory responsibilities to the Federal Communications
Commission,73 Office of Science and Technology Policy,74 National Security
Council,75 National Telecommunications and Information Administration76
(Department of Commerce), and the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration77 (Department of Transportation).
 State State Regulators are regulators having responsibility for developing and
enforcing rules and regulations within their states (i.e., intrastate jurisdiction).
For telecommunications, the primary state regulator is often the state’s public
utility commission.78 One of the functions of State Regulators is to
approve/disapprove the rates (known as tariffs) charged by the utilities for
which they regulate.
 Local Local Regulators are regulators having responsibility for developing and
enforcing rules and regulations within a city, county, or other limited
geographical region (e.g., municipalities). Local regulators typically regulate
cable TV franchises and local public safety communications. Examples include
the Fairfax, Virginia department of cable and consumer services79 and the
Fairfax Planning Commission.80
22) Public Safety Networks
Broadly defined, the public safety community performs emergency first‐response
missions to protect life, health, property, natural resources and to serve the public
welfare. Public safety operations require effective command, control, coordination,
communication, and information sharing tools to support law enforcement,
firefighting operations, emergency medicine, search and rescue, and other critical
response services. A public safety network is an interagency collaboration capability
focused on the development and use of information and communication
technologies (ICT) to support information sharing and communications
interoperability needs of public safety organizations.
 Land Mobile Radio (LMR): Public safety personnel have unique communications
requirements, which differ from those typically provided commercially because of
72 See 47 C.F.R.
73 See id. at §§ 0 ‐ 199.
74 See id. at §§ 200 ‐ 299.
75 See id.
76 See id. at §§ 300 ‐ 399.
77 See id. at §§ 400 ‐ 499.
78 See Federal Communications Commission, State Public Utility Commission Contact List,
http://transition.fcc.gov/wcb/iatd/state_puc.html (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
79 See Fairfax County Virginia, Department of Cable and Consumer Services, http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/dccs/
(last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
80 See Federal Communications Commission, Planning Commission, http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/planning/ (last
visited Mar. 13, 2015).
348The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
their direct role in saving lives, preventing injury, and limiting property loss. Public
safety users currently rely on LMR systems to support mission critical wireless
requirements.
 Next Generation 911 (NG 911): NG911 is an Internet Protocol (IP) based system
comprised of managed Emergency Services IP networks (ESInets), functional
elements (applications), and databases that replicate traditional E911 features
and functions and provides additional capabilities. NG911 is designed to provide
access to emergency services from all connected communications sources, and
provide multimedia data capabilities for Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs)
and other emergency service organizations.81 Examples of NG911 providers
include Intrado and TeleCommunications System (TCS).
 Emergency Services IP Network (ESINet): An ESInet is a managed Internet
Protocol (IP) network that is used for emergency services communications, and
which can be shared by all public safety agencies. It provides the IP transport
infrastructure upon which independent application platforms and core functional
processes can be deployed, including, but not restricted to, those necessary for
providing NG911 services. ESInets may be constructed from a mix of dedicated
and shared facilities. ESInets may be interconnected at local, regional, state,
federal, national and international levels to form an IP‐based inter‐network
(network of networks). Examples of ESINet providers include Intrado and
TeleCommunications System (TCS).
 FirstNET: The need to access and share information is driving investments in new
wireless networks. A nationwide public safety wireless broadband network
(FirstNET) promises to enable solutions that will add broadband data to
emergency responder communications. FirstNet will create a nationwide,
standardized, network with dedicated spectrum to provide public safety access to
advanced broadband communications. Once fully developed, FirstNet will enable
public safety communications to leverage commercial broadband standards,
technologies, devices and will connect to commercial networks and the Internet.
23) Standards Bodies
No single organization defines the standards for the Internet. The standards for the
Internet are developed through the collaboration of multiple standards
organizations and industry working groups. Standards organizations and industry
working groups that contribute to the development of cybersecurity and network
security standards include:
 Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF): The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
is a large open international community of network designers, operators, vendors,
and researchers concerned with the evolution of the Internet architecture and the
81 See National Emergency Numbering Association, What Is NG9‐1‐1? (2008), available at
http://www.nena.org/resource/resmgr/ng9‐1‐1_project/whatisng911.pdf.
349The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
smooth operation of the Internet.82 The IETF provides standards for Internet
protocols and how to secure them. Examples include IPSEC, BGPSec, SSL, DNSSec,
and TLS.
 Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF): The MEF, as the defining body for Carrier Ethernet,
is a global industry alliance comprising more than 220 organizations including
telecommunications service providers, cable MSOs, network equipment/software
manufacturers, semiconductors vendors and testing organizations.83 MEF
develops the standards for Carrier Ethernet and as part of developing those
standards works to make them secure.
 Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS): ATIS is a standard
development organization that develops technical and operational standards and
solutions for the ICT industry. ATIS is accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI).84 ATIS creates standards for the information,
entertainment, and communications marketplace, and as part of developing these
standards it also works to make them secure.
 Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA): TIA is a trade association
representing the global information and communications technology (ICT)
industry through standards development and policy initiatives. TIA develops
standards in the telecommunications industry, and is accredited by ANSI.85
 ITU: ITU (International Telecommunication Union) is the United Nations
specialized agency for information and communication technologies. The ITU
allocates global radio spectrum and satellite orbits, develops technical standards,
and makes efforts to improve access to ICTs to underserved communities
worldwide.86 The ITU develops recommendations that are used by the
telecommunications industry. Included in those recommendations are security
recommendations.
 ICANN: ICANN is a not‐for‐profit public‐benefit corporation that develops policy
on the Internet's unique identifiers through its coordination role of the Internet's
naming system.87
 Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE): the SCTE develops
technical specifications for the cable telecommunications industry and provides
technical specifications for securing cable networks. Examples include DOCSIS’
Baseline Privacy specification.88
82 See The Internet Engineering Task Force, http://www.ietf.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
83 See Metro Ethernet Forum, http://metroethernetforum.org/ (last visited Mar. 12, 2015).
84 See Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, http://www.atis.org/ (last visited Mar. 12, 2015).
85 See Telecommunications Industry Association, http://tiaonline.org/ (last visited Mar. 12, 2015).
86 See International Telecommunication Union, http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/default.aspx (last visited Mar. 12,
2015).
87 See Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, https://www.icann.org/ (last visited Mar. 12, 2015).
88 See Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers, http://www.scte.org/ (last visited Mar. 12, 2015).
350The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI): ETSI develops
telecommunications standards for the European market and developed the Global
System for Mobile Communications (GSM) standard that has since evolved to
Long Term Evolution (LTE) standard through the 3rd Generation Partnership
project (3GPP). As part of developing the mobile communications standards, they
include standard for securing them.89
 World Wide Web Consortium (W3C): The W3C develops the Web standards used
by browsers. The W3C addresses security as part of developing the standards.
Examples of this include HTTPS.90
 Messaging, Malware, Mobile Anti‐Abuse Working Group (M3AAWG): MAAWG is
an industry group that develops initiatives in three areas to resolve abuse
problems: industry collaboration, technology, and public policy. MAAWG has
brought together experts to help develop solutions to email abuse (SPAM),
malware (i.e. Botnets), and robo‐calling (voip SPAM).91
24) ‘Exploit’ Websites
Hackers are persons that utilize the Internet to gain unauthorized access to data,
database and computing systems, and either steal, destroy or corrupt these entities.
Hackers may utilize a wide array of vectors to attain unauthorized access. One such
Ecosystem category that is used extensively by hackers is Exploit websites. Once a
hacker has learned a specific vulnerability, a weak point of entrance or a process
that will harm a specific Internet entity, it will post what it has learned onto various
‘Dark’ websites in an effort to encourage others to follow and repeat their actions.
Hacktivists like Lulsec or Anonymous are persons that utilize the Internet to further
political or social purposes. They are extensive users of these types Exploit websites.
25) Public/Private Power Utilities
Electric Power Utilities generate, transmit, and distribute electric power necessary
for operating communications sector’s systems and networks. Communications
sector systems and networks cannot operate without electric power, therefore
electric utilities provide a critical capability and all players in the communications
sector are critically dependent on electric utilities. Water utilities provide safe
drinking water to the general public and businesses. Gas and oil utilities provide
energy for heating to the general public and business.
Utilities may be owned by a variety of entities, including:
 Investor‐Owned Utilities (IOU) e.g., Duke Energy, Pepco Holdings, Exelon, and
Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E)
 Cooperatives e.g., Great River Energy (GRE), Tri‐State, Brunswick
89 See European Telecommunications Standards Institute, http://www.etsi.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
90 See The World Wide Consortium, http://www.w3.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
91 See Messaging, Malware and Mobile Anti‐Abuse Working Group (‘M3AAWG’), https://www.m3aawg.org/ (last
visited Mar. 13, 2015).
351The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Municipally‐owned, e.g. Los Angeles Department of Water and Power
(LADWP), Nashville Electric Service (NES), or Santee Cooper
 Government‐owned entities, e.g., Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and
Bonneville Power
 Utilities frequently combine a variety of services, with many companies
providing water and gas, electric and water, or electric and gas.
 Utilities also deploy and manage private communications networks and
therefore are members of the communications sector. Many utilities operate
their own wired and wireless backbones (Backbone Operator). Furthermore, in
rural communities some utilities provide broadband and ISP services to local
private customers (ISP). Utilities may run their billing systems (eCommerce),
and operate their VPNs and VoIP networks. Utilities also may be buying these
services from the communications sector companies and are therefore
represented in the End User/Consumer/Enterprise category.
 Utility Company size and sophistication vary greatly, from large Fortune 500
companies to relatively small cooperatives with approximately 140 employees
and possibly fewer. Examples of various sized power utilities are Consolidated
Edison‐ConEd, National Grid, PEPCO, and Duke Energy.
Smart Grid generally refers to a class of technologies that use computer‐based
remote control and automation of electrical power distribution. These systems are
made possible by two‐way communication technology and automated processing
that can monitor and control the power grid network as well as individual power
feeds into homes, office building and industrial locations. Smart Grids offer many
benefits to utilities and consumers ‐‐ mostly seen in big improvements in energy
efficiency on the electricity grid and in the energy users’ homes and offices. The
“grid” amounts to the networks that carry electricity from the plants where it is
generated to consumers. The grid includes wires, substations, transformers,
switches and much more.
Much in the way that a “smart” phone these days means a phone with a computer
in it, smart grid means “computerizing” the electric utility grid. It includes adding
two‐way digital communication technology to devices associated with the grid. Each
device on the network can be given sensors to gather data (power meters, voltage
sensors, fault detectors, etc.), plus two‐way digital communication between the
device in the field and the utility’s network operations center. A key feature of the
smart grid is automation technology that lets the utility adjust and control each
individual device or millions of devices from a central location.
Most of the traditional power distribution grid is built using a "hub‐and‐spoke"
pattern. The Smart Grid can connect the “spokes” to enable multiple distribution
paths. When facing an issue like a tree falling on a line, a lightning strike, or a short
circuit, Smart Grid technologies collectively called “distribution automation” can
sense the problem and automatically reroute power around it.
352The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Smart Meters are devices that make it easy for utilities—and consumers —to obtain
accurate, real‐time readings of electricity usage. With smart meter data, utilities can
manage power distribution more efficiently to avoid overloading to the grid and the
blackouts that follow.
The reason Smart Grids are an important piece of the Ecosystem is that many utility
companies are building IP‐based communications networks to support the Smart
Grid command and control and some are actually connected to and rely on the
Internet. Although with growing security concerns, many of the IP‐based Smart Grid
networks are going back to being separated from the public Internet and may
connect to a next generation industrial Internet network.
26) Open Source Community
Open Source Software/Systems are software and systems based on source code
which is not restricted from viewing, modifying, or transferring by license (however
such license may protect the integrity of the source code). Such software and
systems may be developed by a volunteer or corporate‐backed community, or
commercially. Examples of Open Source Software/Systems include Android,
Ubuntu, and Linux.
Open Source Applications are applications built from open source code and which
are not restricted from viewing, modifying, or transferring by license. Such
applications may be developed by a volunteer or corporate‐backed community, or
commercially. Examples of Open Source Applications include Mozilla Firefox,
Apache/Tomcat, Asterisk, MySQL and NASA World Wind.
Open Source Sandboxes are repositories for source code repositories for open
source software development. The repositories typically offer free access to hosting
and tools for developers of open source software. Examples include Sourceforge.net
and GitHub.com
27) Electronic Payment Service Providers
Electronic Payment service providers include the major credit card companies and
their associated communications networks that enable an end user to swipe their
credit and debit cards when making purchases and returns an authorization for their
requested purchases. These electronic payment transactions take place over what is
called the electronic payment system. The electronic payment system is an
operational network ‐ governed by laws, rules and standards ‐ that links bank
accounts and provides the functionality for monetary exchange using bank deposits.
The payment system is the infrastructure (consisting of institutions, instruments,
rules, procedures, standards, and technical means) established to affect the transfer
of monetary value between parties discharging mutual obligations. Its technical
efficiency determines the efficiency with which transaction money is used in the
economy, and risk associated with its use. A large number of electronic payment
systems have emerged. These include debit cards, credit cards, electronic funds
353The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
transfers, direct credits, direct debits, internet banking and e‐commerce payment
systems.
Payment systems may be physical or electronic and each has its own procedures
and protocols. Standardization has allowed some of these systems and networks to
grow to a global scale, but there are still many country‐ and product‐specific
systems. Examples of payment systems that have become globally available
are credit card and automated teller machine networks. Specific forms of payment
systems are also used to settle financial transactions for products in the equity
markets, bond markets, currency markets, futures markets, derivatives
markets, and options markets, and to transfer funds between financial
institutions both domestically using clearing and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
systems and internationally using the SWIFT network.
Electronic verification systems allow merchants to verify in a few seconds that the
card is valid and the cardholder has sufficient credit to cover the purchase, allowing
the verification to happen at time of purchase. The verification is performed using
a credit card payment terminal or point‐of‐sale (POS) system with a
communications link to the merchant's acquiring bank. Data from the card is
obtained from a magnetic stripe or chip on the card; the latter system is called Chip
and PIN in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and is implemented as an EMV card.
Point‐of‐Sale (POS) Networks is the place where a retail transaction is completed. It
is the point at which a customer makes a payment to the merchant in exchange for
goods or services. At the point of sale the retailer would calculate the amount owed
by the customer and provide options for the customer to make payment. The
merchant will also normally issue a receipt for the transaction. The POS in various
retail industries uses customized hardware and software as per their requirements.
Retailers may utilize weighing scales, scanners, electronic and manual cash
registers, EFTPOS terminals, touch screens and any other wide variety of hardware
and software available for use with POS.
Payment System /Telecom Partnerships: Several Telecom companies have
partnered with several credit card companies to build the next generation of POS
and payment networks. The next generation POS system is based on near field
communication (NFC) and allows users to pay by tapping their mobile device to a
payment terminal. This new mobile electronic payment consortium has initially
partnered with the Discover network and Barclaycard US. In July of 2011, a
partnership was announced between this mobile electronic payment consortium
and Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express. Also in 2011 the three
largest wireless carriers Verizon, AT&T and T‐Mobile, announced plans to invest in
this next generation electronic payment network.
354The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.8 MEASUREMENT
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
355The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................. 357
II. FEEDER GROUP STRUCTURE .......................................................................... 358
III. OBJECTIVE ..................................................................................................... 358
IV. SCOPE AND AUDIENCE .................................................................................. 359
V. WHAT MAKES A GOOD CYBERSECURITY METRIC? ........................................ 361
A. BACKGROUND ........................................................................................ 361
B. ORGANIZATIONAL PRINCIPLES ............................................................... 361
C. WHY IS MEASURING SECURITY DIFFICULT? ........................................... 362
VI. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: DEVELOPING RELEVANT MEASURES INSIDE THE
FIRM ............................................................................................................ 363
A. STEPS FOR EVALUATING CYBERSECURITY PROGRAMS WITHIN A FIRM 363
B. CONSIDERATIONS ................................................................................... 364
VII. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: PROCESS TO EVALUATE CYBERSECURITY
MEASURES WITHIN THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ................................ 365
VIII. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: MEASURES FOR INCLUSION IN SECTOR ANNUAL
REPORT (SAR) .............................................................................................. 366
IX. SUMMARY FINDINGS .................................................................................... 367
356The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report outlines the analysis and findings of the Measurements Working Group within CSRIC
Working Group 4. The objectives of the working group were to provide insight into what
constitutes meaningful indicators (i.e., cybersecurity metric(s)) of successful cybersecurity risk
management; facilitate communication regarding the cybersecurity metrics among Internet
Service Providers (ISPs); and suggest practices that companies may consider in the
development and incorporation of metrics into their internal cybersecurity programs.
The Measurement Working Group’s analysis indicates the following actions to fulfill the
Working Group’s goals: 1) develop a process for industry and government engagement to
discuss meaningful indicators of cybersecurity risk management led by a standing review group
under the Communications Sector Coordinating Council92 (CSCC), and 2) propose quantitative
measures and qualitative examples that the CSCC could include in its Sector Annual Report93
(SAR), to provide comprehensive analysis of the existing state of the critical communications
infrastructure.
Members of the Measurements Working Group agreed that their scope of work would center
on the development of measures associated with ensuring the availability, reliability, resiliency,
and integrity of communications critical infrastructure, consistent with the national
performance goals recommended by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) during its
implementation of Executive Order 13636.94 In addition, the Working Group adopted the
definition of “critical infrastructure” that is contained in Executive Order 13636, which identifies
critical infrastructure based upon a catastrophic standard.95
This report provides a brief background on cybersecurity metrics based on existing industry
standards and guidelines and outlines steps for developing cybersecurity metrics that
companies may incorporate into their cybersecurity risk management programs. The report
also discusses the challenges in developing cybersecurity metrics. Those challenges include
correlating cyber threats to any specific industry sector and difficulty establishing a correlation
between any specific cybersecurity practice and a cybersecurity outcome.
Finally, the report concludes by identifying high level metrics that the CSCC, in partnership with
DHS and Federal Communications Commission (FCC), could take under consideration for
inclusion in the SAR to help provide macro level information on the state of cybersecurity for
92 See Communications Sector Coordinating Council, http://www.commscc.org/ (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
93 See 2014 CSCC Working Groups, Plans and Reports, available at http://www.commscc.org/about/working‐
groups/.
94 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636].
95 Id. at §9 (“[t]he Secretary shall use a risk‐based approach to identify critical infrastructure where a cybersecurity
incident could reasonably result in catastrophic regional or national effects on public health or safety, economic
security, or national security”).
357The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
critical communications infrastructure and meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk
management for that infrastructure. This information would be reported on an aggregate
sector, not company specific, level. The Working Group also finds that in the event the FCC
desires more specific information from individual companies, the Working Group recommends
that the FCC, in coordination and in conjunction with DHS, develop a voluntary program for
annual meetings between the FCC, DHS and individual companies that agree to
participate. Companies that choose to participate in this program should be afforded the
protections that are already provided by the federal government to critical infrastructure under
the Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) program or a legally sustainable
equivalent.
II. FEEDER GROUP STRUCTURE
Chris Boyer – Co‐Chair AT&T
Chris Roosenraad – Co‐Chair Time Warner Cable
Nadya Bartol UTC
Stacy Hartman Centurylink
Robert Mayer USTelecom
Paul Diamond Centurylink
Ramesh Sepehrrad Comcast
Matt Tooley NCTA
Vern Mosley FCC
Jared Allison Verizon
Matt Carothers Cox
III. OBJECTIVE
The purpose of the Measurement Working Group within CSRIC Working Group #4 is to offer
analysis and findings regarding meaningful indicators of successful (and unsuccessful) cyber risk
management that demonstrate how communications providers are managing cybersecurity risk
through the application of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (or an equivalent construct). The
objectives of this group within CSRIC Working Group #4 are as follows:
 To provide insight and criteria on what constitutes a meaningful cybersecurity metric that
can serve to inform future discussions about metrics within the Sector and with the FCC.
 To identify processes or standard practices companies may consider building into their risk
management programs to assist in informing senior management on how their company is
managing cyber risks to their core business.
 To identify a standard process through which the FCC or other government agencies can
engage with the sector to meaningfully assess the communication sector’s progress towards
managing cybersecurity risk.
358The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 To identify measures that the sector has determined best demonstrate the overall
availability, reliability, resiliency, and integrity of critical communications infrastructure, as
meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management, that could be included in future
drafts of the Sector Annual Report (SAR) starting in 2015. The SAR would be provided to the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS), as the Communications Sector Specific Agency
(SSA), and the Government Coordinating Council (GCC) which includes the FCC, to provide
visibility into progress within the communications sector based on the cybersecurity
metrics.
** Due to a variety of factors, particularly those outlined in Section IV, the Working Group has
concluded that it is very difficult to measure security and to establish a cause for any particular
cyber practice. For this reason the findings outlined in this Appendix are focused on measuring
communication sector collective outcomes as opposed to individual company best practices.
Further, many cyber threats span industries and thus cannot be easily correlated back to any
one entity. Therefore, the Working Group focused its analysis on communications critical
infrastructure managed by communications network service providers.
IV. SCOPE AND AUDIENCE
The scope for this work is focused upon measures96 associated with ensuring the availability,
reliability, resiliency and integrity of communications critical infrastructure, as meaningful
indicators of successful cyber risk management, consistent with the national performance goals
recommended by DHS in implementing Executive Order 13636.
For the purposes of this report, critical infrastructure is defined as systems and assets, whether
physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such
systems and assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security,
national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters.97 For example, as
outlined in the wireline subgroup report, the critical infrastructure considered by the subgroup
included the core communications networks such as the network backplane and critical
services. As such, this report is focused upon measurements or measures related to ensuring
the availability, reliability, resiliency and integrity of each segment’s critical infrastructure with
their respective communications networks.
The group focused on meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management and did not
focus on measurements related to cybersecurity writ large given the difficulty in correlating
cybersecurity issues back to specific ISP actions. There are some potential data points that may
be relevant to evaluating cybersecurity across the board such as infection rates and other data.
96 For the purpose of this document the terms “measure” and “metric” are synonymous. This report uses the term
“measure” because this term is used in international standards on security measurement and system and software
measurement. However, it should be noted that the term “metric” as used by NIST means the same as “measure”
when used by ISO. ISO/IEC 27004, Information Security Management System Measurement Defines “measure” as
“variable to which a value is assigned as the result of measurement” where “measurement” is the process of
obtaining information that makes up a measure.
97 EO 13636 at §9.
359The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
However, these data points are more relevant to the entire ecosystem. Therefore, the data
points should be considered as part of a cross‐ecosystem analysis rather than addressed in
isolation within CSRIC, which is unique to ISPs. The ecosystem analysis is being contemplated
by the Department of Commerce and NIST as a result of their recent Request for Information
(RFI) on the use of the framework.98
This work is focused on potential macro‐level practices and measures that may be considered
by firms for use by senior executives to allow meaningful assessments to be made both
internally (e.g., Chief Security Officers and senior corporate management) and externally (e.g.,
business partners). The objective is to develop data points that are actionable, simple to
understand, relevant, and related solely to the four objectives outlined above. This document is
not intended to be proscriptive in nature or become a “checklist” of measures. Moreover, this
document does not provide specific descriptions of existing measurement methodologies or
identify an exhaustive list of cybersecurity measures. The measures outlined are the result of
the measurements working group’s analysis and findings that the CSCC could take under
consideration in preparing the annual SAR.
The following national and international standards, guidelines, and best practice documents
were consulted in the development of this document:
 NIST 800‐55 Rev1 ‐ Performance Measurement Guide for Information Security99
 ISO/IEC 27004 – Information Technology – Security Techniques – Information Security
Management – Measurement Process100
 ISO/IEC 15939 – Information Technology – System and Software Engineering –
Measurement101
 Draft Practical Measurement Framework for Software Assurance and Information
Security102
98 See National Institute of Standards and Technology, Experience With the Framework for Improving Critical
Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 79 FR 50891 (Aug. 26, 2014) [hereinafter NIST RFI] , available at
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2014/08/26/2014‐20315/experience‐with‐the‐framework‐for‐improving‐
critical‐infrastructure‐cybersecurity.
99 National Institute of Standards and Technology, Performance Measurement Guide for Information Security
(2008), available at http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800‐55‐Rev1/SP800‐55‐rev1.pdf.
100 International Organization for Standardization, ISO/IEC 27004:2009 (2013), available at
https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:42106:en.
101 International Organization for Standardization, ISO/IEC 15939:2007 (2012), available at
http://www.iso.org/iso/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=44344.
102 See Practical Software and Systems Management, Draft ‐ Practical Measurement Framework for Software
Assurance and Information Security (2008), available at
http://www.psmsc.com/Downloads/TechnologyPapers/SwA%20Measurement%2010‐08‐08.pdf.
360The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. WHAT MAKES A GOOD CYBERSECURITY METRIC?
A. BACKGROUND
According to national and international standards and guidelines on security
measures/metrics,103 cybersecurity metrics should be built to support specific performance
goals and objectives. For example, the NIST cybersecurity framework contemplates firms
determining their core mission, cybersecurity threats or risks to that core mission and then
developing a “profile” of internal practices and controls, pulling from the suggested
practices in the framework, to best manage those risks. Cybersecurity metrics should
support those efforts.
For example, a firm may elect to implement a standard to minimize security threats stating
that, “All employees should receive adequate information security awareness training”
which is consistent with the recommended prevention practices in the framework. In this
example, an appropriate goal may be that “All new employees receive security training on
an annual basis.” A metric would follow monitoring the accomplishment of the objectives
by quantifying the implementation of that particular goal, such as periodic status updates
on the percentage of employees trained. These metrics should include enterprise‐level
guidance and correspond to the operational priorities of the organization.
Examples of information security activities that can provide data for measurement include
risk assessments, penetration testing, security assessments, and continuous monitoring.
Other assessment activities, such as the effectiveness of a training and awareness program,
can also be quantified and used as data sources for measures. Management should use
measures to review performance by observing trends, identifying and prioritizing corrective
actions, and directing the application of those corrective actions based on risk mitigation
factors and available resources. The metrics development process, described below in
Section VI, ensures that metrics are developed with the purpose of identifying the cause(s)
of poor performance and pointing to appropriate corrective actions. Cybersecurity
measures should support the specific performance goals and objectives of an organization.
NIST Special Publication 800‐55 Revision 1 identifies the characteristics of good measures
that the Working Group recommends should be taken under consideration in determining
what constitutes a good cybersecurity metric.
B. ORGANIZATIONAL PRINCIPLES
The following list includes representative principles that organizations may consider in
developing internal cybersecurity measurement approaches. These principles should guide
103 See National Institute of Standards and Technology, supra note 100, at 361.
361The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
an organization as it considers, tailors, introduces, and evolves its cybersecurity
measurement activities:104
 Security measurement should be integrated into an organization’s existing
measurement and risk management practices.
 Security measurement should satisfy information needs for a variety of
stakeholders/audiences
 Each stakeholder group will generally require tailoring of specific measures based on
each group’s information needs.
 Different measures targeting different stakeholders may use the same information
originating from the same data sources to facilitate multiple uses of the same set of
data.
 Security measures should be effective, practical, and worth the investment of
resources in the long term.
 Implementation of measurement should incorporate automation to assist analysts in
data collection, analysis, and reporting.
For the purposes of this document, the term “measurement” applies to both
quantitative and qualitative measurement methodologies. This may also include data
that firms obtain from third party data sources who regularly work with firms to provide
cybersecurity threat information.
C. WHY IS MEASURING SECURITY DIFFICULT?
Based on practitioner experience in establishing and operating security measurement
programs there are several reasons why measuring cybersecurity may be a challenge:
 Cybersecurity is not an exact science and does not provide for exact measurement
such as water, temperature, or network throughput. In many cases, it is difficult to
determine the success or failure of a given practice, or even if recommended
practices are having an impact.
 Inputs, outputs, and outcomes of cybersecurity are separated in time, making
authoritative measurement challenging. In other words, protective controls such as
security training, access control, or firewalls are believed to work; however, it is very
difficult to pinpoint cause and effect. This makes outcomes difficult to articulate and
quantify.
 Correlation does not imply causation. For example, the increase in a number of
attacks or incidents may simply mean that the intrusion detection and prevention
systems have been updated and tuned and are registering a greater number of
events which might have gone unnoticed before.
104 See Practical Software and Systems Management, supra note 103, at 161 (The principles outlined in this section
were adapted from this source).
362The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Different organizations have different risk environments, goals for cybersecurity,
and tools that they use to capture measures, and therefore comparing organizations
is challenging and may not be meaningful.
VI. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: DEVELOPING RELEVANT MEASURES INSIDE THE
FIRM
The following identifies a basic process and considerations regarding how companies could
develop internal processes to measure the state of their cybersecurity risk management
program. This is not intended to be a checklist or required steps; rather they are actionable
steps firms could employ to voluntarily develop the means to measure the state of their
cybersecurity programs and be used externally as meaningful indicators of the firm’s successful
cyber risk management. This process is based on a collective practitioner wisdom that has been
codified into numerous standards, guidelines, and best practices over a number of years.105
Further the Working Group would like to emphasize that implementing a comprehensive
cybersecurity program, or making substantial edits to an existing program, takes time as
business process have to be developed, tested and implemented. In some cases, new standards
or best practices may also need to be developed by standards development organizations.
A. STEPS FOR EVALUATING CYBERSECURITY PROGRAMS WITHIN A FIRM
 Determine the organization’s core mission and risks consistent to the process
outlined in the NIST cybersecurity framework (e.g., Refer to Wireline subgroup
report).
 Determine the organization’s specific performance goals and objectives.
 Develop internal controls in support of those objectives.
 Develop methods to evaluate those controls by quantifying the implementation,
efficiency, and effectiveness of security controls.
 Collect data to evaluate security controls.
 Analyze collected data and identify possible improvement actions against the
performance goals and objectives.
 Document and report cybersecurity progress markers to appropriate stakeholders.
 Use progress markers to support decision making and resource allocation.
105 See Capability Maturity Model Integration Institute, http://cmmiinstitute.com/#home (last visited Mar. 13,
2015) (Capability Maturity Model Integration); See National Institute of Standards and Technology, supra note 100,
at 361; See Practical Software and Systems Management, supra note 103, at 161; See International Organization
for Standardization, supra note 101, at 361; See International Organization for Standardization, supra note 100, at
361.
363The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
B. CONSIDERATIONS
Users of this document should be aware of important implementation considerations that
will assist in making their program a success, including:106
 Identify no more than 1 to 3 goals, with associated controls based on current
priorities.
 Ensure that the cost of evaluation activities does not exceed the benefit that these
activities provide.
 Data quality is important to ensure that any measures are objective and reliable.
 Measures must be useful and relevant
 A measures repository should be utilized to conduct trend analysis that enhances
evaluation and effect improvement.
 If measures are not found useful after 2 cycles of use, retire them and identify other
measures that can be implemented to gather the same needed information.
 Review, revise, or phase out old measures, and phase in new measures, when
targeted level of performance is achieved or when organization’s requirements
change.
 Measurement should help determine general trends such as improvement or
degradation, and help in identifying cause(s) of good or poor performance.
 Information about performance trends and causes of such trends should be used in
improvement action and resource allocation decision making.
 Design the measurement program to help motivate desired behavior focusing on
improved management and better performance, rather than motivating people to
make the numbers look good.
 Use measurement to increase accountability and responsibility and help individuals
implement changes required to improve performance, rather than to punish
individuals for poor results.
 Identify which measures are to be reported and to who to ensure that only
appropriate information reaches each external and internal stakeholder.
106 These steps are based on Draft Practical Measurement Framework for Software Assurance and Information
Security is an industry‐developed document that harmonized several measurement methodologies and
demonstrated fundamental similarities among them. The industry practitioners who developed this document
came from a diverse group of organizations including industry, government, and academia. Many considerations
in this list are informed by previously referenced NIST and ISO guidelines and standards.
364The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
FIGURE 1: INTERNAL PROCESS FLOW” CREATE/UPDATE MEASURES107
VII. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: PROCESS TO EVALUATE CYBERSECURITY
MEASURES WITHIN THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
A disciplined review process has been identified and could be adopted for future government
requests for cybersecurity measurements. To ensure success in providing meaningful
measurements, as requested by the FCC, a defined, structured approach should be followed.
That structured process should include how to request a potential measurement, how the
measurement request will be evaluated for efficacy and finally, submitted for future use.
As contemplated, the Sector process would establish a “front door” for requests. This would
relieve the individual CSRIC Working Groups from having to define measures at the same time
that the group is tasked to address complex technical and policy issues. A standing review
group would be formed with participation from industry experts. Upon request for Industry
Measures, the review group would first define/clarify the information sought, and then outline
the process that would be undertaken to address the request. The process flow captured in
Appendix A will be used as foundation for the framework process definition. The review group
would represent industry interests with the goal of responding appropriately to requests for
measures. The Measurement Working Group finds that the Communications Sector
Coordinating Council (CSCC) can be utilized as that board of review, again, with industry expert
participation.
107 N. Bartol, Articulating Value of Security Through Cybersecurity Metrics, presented at EUCI Conference April
2014.
365The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The CSCC would then work with the “Requestor” on individual measures requested; including
determining what measures may be effective based on the findings of this CSRIC IV Working
Group 4 Measures Working Group. The CSCC will also provide a framework document for the
inputs of requests for measures, which will help define the metric being requested and will
provide the information required to begin shaping the response. The CSCC will also reach out to
standards bodies for input or coordination of efforts as considered necessary. Case Studies
and/or longer‐term Pilot Programs will be addressed as required to “test” a given metric before
recommendations are made on the viability of the metric. Agreed upon Sector measures would
then be provided in the Sector Annual Report (SAR) provided to Congress, through the DHS
CIPAC process. As a member of the GCC, the FCC would be a participant in the development of
this SAR and have access to that information.
Appendix A to this document provides a diagram outlining this proposed process.
VIII. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: MEASURES FOR INCLUSION IN SECTOR ANNUAL
REPORT (SAR)
An objective of this group is to identify how to best demonstrate the overall state of
cybersecurity in terms of meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management within the
communications sector. To accomplish this objective, the Working Group is recommending that
the CSCC develop an addendum to the Sector Annual Report (SAR) starting in 2015 to provide
meaningful indicators of cyber risk management and the state of cybersecurity in the
communications sector. The Working Group is recommending that the SAR include discussion
of how cybersecurity risk management processes employed by the sector are addressing the
availability, reliability, resiliency and integrity of critical communications network
infrastructure.108 The SAR would then be provided to the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), as the Communications Sector Specific Agency (SSA), and the Government Coordinating
Council (GCC), which ensures that the FCC would have visibility into progress within the
communications sector.
As noted above, there are numerous challenges associated with cybersecurity metrics given
that many data points fall outside ISP’s control and are not related to communications critical
infrastructure. For this reason, the Working Group focused on quantitative metrics related to
the availability, reliability, resiliency and integrity of communications critical network
infrastructure which are within ISPs span of control. These quantitative measures can be
combined with qualitative examples on major issues and actions that ISPs; for example, the top
3‐5 threats faced by industry over a given period of time and use cases or the industry
response, to provide a picture of the current threats to critical communications network
infrastructure and actions the industry is taking to mitigate those risks.
108 See NIST RFI (SAR may consider questions outlined in the NIST RFI).
366The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
IX. SUMMARY FINDINGS
The Measurements Working Group presents its summary findings below. The findings are
based on the Working Group’s analysis, deliberations, and discussions with leading experts on
the subject of meaningful indicators of successful cyber risk management. The summary
findings are also consistent with the recommendations noted in the EastWest Institute’s
“Measuring the Cybersecurity Problem Policy” report.109 In their report they concluded a
trusted private sector entity was needed for cybersecurity metrics and private sector
companies should be incentivized to voluntarily contribute data, and subject matter experts
should collaborate to develop statistical methods analyzing the data for reporting benchmarks.
 Future requests for metrics by government agencies into the impact of cybersecurity
threats to communications infrastructure should be directed to a single point of contact
review board within the CSCC which would then analyze the request, along with
appropriate subject matter experts, taking in to the consideration the discussion of “good”
cybersecurity measures outlined in Section VIII above, to determine if such a metric should
be added to the annual SAR.
 Communications network service providers should evaluate how to include metrics into
their cyber risk management processes. There are a variety of factors and process steps
that firms can consider in developing internal cybersecurity reporting regimes as meaningful
indicators of successful cyber risk management to support their overall performance
objectives under the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
 It is difficult to develop cybersecurity measures around the effectiveness of given programs
given the cross‐sectorial nature of cyber threats. The Working Group finds that more cross‐
sectorial analysis is needed to determine a comprehensive and valid set of cybersecurity
effectiveness metrics. It is inappropriate for those metrics to be completed on an individual
sector basis given the difficulty in correlating the threat to one sector. As such, this topic of
discussion should continue with DHS as the lead agency responsible for cybersecurity via
the CIPAC process.110
 The CSCC should work with DHS and the FCC under CIPAC to develop an annual addendum
to the SAR that provides both quantitative and qualitative examples of the steps industry is
taking to address cyber threats as outlined in Section VIII above. These measures should be
high level and at an aggregate level focused on the continuing availability of
communications critical infrastructure.
109 See EastWest Institute, Measuring the Cybersecurity Problem (2013), available at
http://www.strozfriedberg.com/wp‐content/uploads/2013/10/Measuring‐The‐Cybersecurity‐
Problem_EWI_ENC_2013.pdf.
110 See Department of Homeland Security, Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council,
http://www.dhs.gov/critical‐infrastructure‐partnership‐advisory‐council (last visited Mar. 13, 2015) (The DHS
Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council (CIPAC) was established to facilitate interaction between
governmental entities and representatives from the community of critical infrastructure owners and operators.)
367The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 In the event the FCC desires more specific information from individual companies, the
Working Group recommends that the FCC, in coordination and in conjunction with DHS,
develop a voluntary program for annual meetings between the FCC, DHS and individual
companies that agree to participate. Companies that choose to participate in this program
should be afforded the protections that are already provided by the federal government to
critical infrastructure under the PCCII program or a legally sustainable equivalent.
368The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
APPENDIX A
Metric Option
1)
2)
3)
4)
369The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.9 SMALL AND MEDIUM BUSINESS
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
370The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary & Introduction .............................................................. 372
II. Feeder Group Structure ................................................................................ 374
III. Background ................................................................................................... 374
IV. Objective, Scope and Methodology .............................................................. 375
A. Objective ................................................................................................ 375
B. Scope ...................................................................................................... 375
C. Methodology .......................................................................................... 377
V. Results and Findings ...................................................................................... 378
A. What ....................................................................................................... 378
B. Who ........................................................................................................ 379
C. How ........................................................................................................ 380
VI. Use Cases....................................................................................................... 383
A. Broadcast Industry Use Case .................................................................. 383
B. Wireline, Wireless, and Cable Use Case ................................................. 384
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................. 390
VIII. Appendices .................................................................................................. 391
A. Appendix I: Barriers to Implementation ................................................. 391
B. Appendix II: Priority Practices ................................................................ 391
C. Appendix III: Annotated List of References/Resources .......................... 393
371The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY & INTRODUCTION
Welcome to the FCC’s Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council IV
(CSRIC IV) Working Group 4 (WG 4), Small and Medium Business (SMB) Feeder Group Report.
This document is written for small or medium businesses in any of the five communications
industry segments: broadcast, cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline.
At the outset:
 We congratulate you for exploring this resource.
 We recognize that undertaking a comprehensive, updated, and company‐wide approach to
cybersecurity may be difficult, especially given your company’s size, operations, and limited
access to financial, staff, and technical resources.
SMB stands for small and medium business, but we are not providing a proscriptive definition
of what an SMB is, rather, as you read later, we outline some ways to think of your size and
capabilities in relation to other communications businesses.
To understand what is happening in cybersecurity today, all you need to do is look to the latest
headlines. Cyber‐attacks have intensified in frequency, sophistication, and severity.
Corporations, networks, and individuals are under constant attack by cyber‐threats from within
the United States and abroad. Internet services and communications have been impeded by
attackers, causing disruption and uncertainty for millions of users. Personal information and
corporate data have been stolen. And it is not just the big companies who are being
attacked—small and medium size companies may be seen as easier targets or stepping stones
to attack larger networks.
The need to protect your networks and customers is critical from both an infrastructure and a
business perspective. As SMBs, you should continually strive to embrace new methods and
tools, and, even more importantly, maintain cybersecurity resilience as a key and active part of
your operations and business plans. Just as careful budgeting, the right equipment, and an
understanding of your customers are key to keeping your businesses relevant and useful,
ensuring your ability to continue to operate in the face of cybersecurity threats has become an
integral part of your organization.
Rather than providing yet another checklist of things that need to be done, cybersecurity
protection and resilience is best approached using risk/benefit analysis. The central resource
for this effort is the “Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity” Version 1.0
(NIST CSF), which was released February 12, 2014.111 This risk management approach is flexible
and dynamic in order to successfully respond to your environment, risk tolerance, and unique
needs. It helps you to identify, assess, and prioritize the greatest risks to your business needs
and functions. The NIST CSF then helps you determine where and how best to apply resources
to minimize, monitor, and control the probability and/or impact of cybersecurity events.
111 See National Institute for Standards and Technology, Framework for Improving Cybersecurity, 79 FR 9167 (Feb.
18, 2014) [hereinafter NIST CSF], available at http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity‐
framework‐021214.pdf.
372The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
It is important to keep in mind that you are already making many risk/benefit decisions in the
day‐to‐day operations of your business; while some of these concepts may appear new and
require time to study and embrace, cybersecurity preparedness is, at its foundation, another
risk identification and benefit analysis procedure, just as you already use every day.
The NIST Framework provides five “functions” that all organizations, regardless of size, can use
to evaluate their cybersecurity programs:
 Identify – Develop understanding within an organization or operation to manage
cybersecurity risks to systems, assets, data, and capabilities
 Protect – Develop and implement appropriate safeguards to ensure the delivery of
critical services
 Detect – Develop and implement the capability to identify the occurrence of a
cybersecurity event
 Respond – Develop and implement methods to respond to cybersecurity events that
have occurred
 Recover – Ensure the ability to restore normal operations and to learn from the events
that have occurred
Within each function, the NIST Framework provides more granular guidance via 22 specific
“categories” and 98 “subcategories.”
The following report explains, in basic terms, how to interpret the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework. It provides illustrative examples of how to apply the NIST Framework to protect
your core network and critical infrastructure. The guidance provided within this report is
designed for an SMB that is seeking to undertake a more formalized and structured risk‐
management approach to address cybersecurity. However, each company should evaluate and
apply the NIST Framework based upon its unique needs and operational environment.
In closing, we invite you into the cybersecurity conversation. While the CSRIC IV committee
has a specific finite life, your participation in improving our country’s cybersecurity resilience is
critical to protecting our nation and our customers.
373The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
II. FEEDER GROUP STRUCTURE
The SMB Feeder Group consists of representatives of small to medium businesses from each of
the communication segments: broadcast, cable, satellite, wireless, and wireline. Those
individuals are listed below.
Name Company
Adrienne Abbott Nevada SECC
Edward Czarnecki Monroe Electronics/Digital Alert System
Seton Droppers PBS
Chris Homer PBS
Susan Joseph (Co‐Chair) CableLabs
Kevin Kastor Consolidated Communications
Jeremy Larson SilverStar Communications
Greg Lucak Windstream
Joel Rademacher Iridium
Bill Trelease Delhi Telephone Company
Jesse Ward (Co‐Chair) NTCA – The Rural Broadband Association
Kathleen Whitbeck Nsight
Pam Witmer Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC)
III. BACKGROUND
Recognizing that the national and economic security of the United States depends on the
reliable functioning of critical infrastructure, the President issued Executive Order
13636, “Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity,” (EO) in February 2013. It directed the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to lead the development of a
technology‐neutral, voluntary Cybersecurity Framework to help owners and operators of
critical infrastructure identify, assess, and manage cyber risk.
NIST released the first version of the “Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity” Version 1.0 (NIST Framework) on February 12, 2014. The NIST Framework,
created through collaboration between industry and government, consists of existing
standards, guidelines, and practices, and can be used by a variety of industries and
organizations to promote the protection of critical infrastructure.
In March of 2014, the FCC established CSRIC IV WG 4 to analyze the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework with respect to the communications sector and address how communications
companies can apply the NIST Framework within their organizations to strengthen and protect
their networks and infrastructures against cyber threats and attacks.
Within WG 4, a Small and Medium Business (SMB) Feeder Group was created, containing
representatives from all five communications segments: wireline, wireless, cable, satellite, and
broadcast. The SMB Feeder Group focused on helping small and medium communications
374The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
companies understand how the NIST Cybersecurity Framework could be applied to their
operations, while respecting challenges related to their size and limited resources.
IV. OBJECTIVE, SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY
A. Objective
The SMB Feeder Group strived to advance awareness and education with regard to the
importance of cybersecurity for small‐ and medium‐sized organizations and worked to
ensure that cybersecurity risk management “best practices” are flexible and scalable for
companies of all sizes. As such, the SMB Feeder Group’s objectives were as follows:
 Explain, in basic terms, why cybersecurity is important and what SMBs can achieve
by using the WG 4 document to improve their cybersecurity risk management
practices.
 Provide overall guidance on how SMBs can digest and apply the NIST Framework,
while providing flexibility for individual companies to suit their unique needs,
characteristics and risks (i.e., there is no one‐size fits all approach to cybersecurity
risk management.).
 Provide guidance with respect to prioritization of relevant NIST Framework
subcategories from an SMB perspective.
 Develop at least one SMB use case.
 In coordination with the Barriers to Implementation Feeder Group, identify
challenges that SMBs commonly face and explore ideas for mitigating them.
 Develop an annotated, refined list of resources/references/tools for SMBs.
B. Scope
Within CSRIC IV WG 4, the five industry segments were charged with adapting the NIST
Framework to the communications sector based upon the need to protect the core
network and “critical infrastructure” as defined by the EO112 and further outlined in the
Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) 2012 National Sector Risk Assessment (NSRA).
Although many SMBs may not fall into the strict letter of the EO’s definition of “critical
infrastructure,” they can adhere to the spirit of this assignment, thereby keeping the scope
of the WG4 effort the same, but scaling it appropriately for SMBs within the
communications sector. In other words, this feeder group’s mission is to assist SMBs with
protecting their “core network” and “critical infrastructure” as defined by each local
operator or broadcaster.113
112 See Exec. Order No. 13,636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, 78 FR 11737, § 2 (Feb. 19, 2013)
[hereinafter EO 13636] (“[As] used in this order, the term critical infrastructure means systems and assets,
whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and
assets would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health or safety, or
any combination of those matters.”).
113 The SMB group is not specifying or defining "critical infrastructure" and "critical services" for SMBs within the
communications sector. Rather, this is an individual decision based upon an SMB's local area, its needs, and
network capabilities. In addition, it is important to note that EO 13636 defines "critical infrastructure" and
then designates the determination of specific critical infrastructure operators to the Department of Homeland
Security. Nothing in this report contradicts that structure.
375The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
For example, most network operators should maintain service to their core switch so that
public safety answering points (PSAP), hospitals, and other critical customers can access
communications services. In terms of a “small” or “medium”‐sized local broadcaster, the
organization should maintain and secure critical public services such as the emergency alert
system (EAS).
Each of the industry segments has further defined the “core network” and “critical
infrastructure and services” as it relates to large businesses, and this info may prove useful
to SMBs as they also look to define those terms for their local areas:
 Broadcast – See Sections I and II of the Broadcast Segment Report
 Cable – See Section III of the Cable Segment Report
 Satellite – See Section II of the Satellite Segment Report
 Wireless – See Sections I and II of the Wireless Segment Report
 Wireline – See Sections I, II, and III of the Wireline Segment Report
Also of note, although the NIST Framework can and should be evaluated at the enterprise
level, as this is a good business practice and corporate citizenship, this is not the spirit of
the WG 4 effort. For SMBs in particular, it is most important for these resource‐challenged
organizations to start by protecting their core network, and critical infrastructure and
services.
In addition, readers may question if their organization falls within the scope of this report
with respect to the size of their operations. The Small Business Administration (SBA) has
established a numerical definition of small businesses, or size standards, for all for‐profit
industries, which are helpful as a general guide.114 However, whether a business is defined
as “small” or “medium” for the purposes of this exercise is a complicated decision, based
upon multiple intricate factors, and best left to the discretion of the individual business.
As it looks to self‐classify with respect to size, an individual business should consider the
following:
 the resources and/or assets that a “small” or “medium” business would have at its
disposal to evaluate the recommended WG 4 best practices, including financial
resources, the time required for the task, and a company’s access to internal and
external expertise;
 the role of a “small” or “medium” business in the supply chain, i.e. its purchasing
power;
 the dependencies on outside consultants, partners, vendors, and systems, and the
quantity/importance of those relationships;
 the total number of customers served by a “small” or “medium” business;
 the business drivers for security, i.e. the unique needs of the company’s or
organization’s customers;
114 Small Business Administration, SBA Size Standards, https://www.sba.gov/content/summary‐size‐standards‐
industry‐sector (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
376The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 and, if a cyber‐incident should occur within a “small” or “medium” business, its
resultant impact upon a regional or local area.
C. Methodology
The SMB Feeder Group evaluated the 98 subcategories included within the NIST
Framework. The group discussed whether each subcategory was in or out of scope; its
criticality to protecting the core network and/or critical infrastructure from cyber threats;
how it should or could be applied in a small or mid‐sized carrier’s or broadcaster’s network;
and potential barriers to implementation.
Based upon this analysis, from the 98 initial subcategories, the SMB group selected a subset
of 37 high‐priority subcategories. This culled list is a useful starting point for an SMB that is
seeking to undertake a more formalized and structured risk‐management approach to
protect its core network and critical infrastructure and services from cyber threats. As
determined and selected by the SMB group, the high‐priority subcategory list, in its
entirety, can be found in Appendix II.
Although the list may be a helpful starting point for those SMBs that are intimately familiar
with the NIST Framework, others may need more substantive guidance with simplified
language and recommendations. As such, based upon the high‐priority subcategory listing,
the feeder group created a narrative centered on three basic questions:
1. What does an SMB need to protect;
2. Who has the responsibility for a given task; and
3. How will an SMB protect its core network and critical infrastructure and services
(i.e. develop plans for identification, prevention, recovery, and continual
improvement)
The SMB Feeder Group also developed use cases based upon the high‐priority subcategory
listing contained in Appendix II. The entirety of the Results and Findings analysis discussed
below – including the “What,” “Who,” and “How” narratives and the Use Cases – should be
taken as a whole and provide SMBs with practical guidance with regard to how they can
digest and apply the NIST Framework to protect their organizations’ core networks and
critical infrastructure and services.
It is important to reiterate that the guidance provided in this document is designed for
illustrative purposes only, and should not be boiled down to a prescriptive, inclusive list
that pre‐defines which NIST Framework subcategories apply to all SMBs within the
communications sector. Rather, consistent with the NIST Framework which provides for
flexibility, each company should examine its network, core business objectives/mission, risk
tolerance, and security needs to determine which subcategories—of the 98 included in the
NIST Framework—are most applicable to its operations.
377The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. RESULTS AND FINDINGS
A. What
As mentioned previously, given its size and scale, an SMB may not be responsible for
deploying and maintaining “critical infrastructure” as that term is defined in the EO.
However, its ability to operate secure, reliable networks and provide protected, resilient
services is no less important to the critical customers that may operate in its service
territory such as public safety answering points (PSAPs), hospitals, law enforcement
agencies, and educational institutions.
The ability of an SMB to protect its networks and services first depends on answering a
seemingly simple question – what are you trying to protect? This is the critical component
of the “Identify” function in the NIST Framework. Identifying all of the elements within a
network that need protecting is the prerequisite for managing the remaining four functions
in the NIST Framework – Protect, Detect, Respond and Recover.
The answer to “What” should encompass physical assets, devices and hardware, as well as
software platforms and data applications. For instance, wireline and wireless providers
likely will identify their home location registers (HLR), SS7 protocols, and voice switches as
part of their core networks or critical infrastructure. For cable operators, network
operations centers (NOCs) and core routing facilities likely would be self‐classified as critical
infrastructure. Satellite uplinks likely would be classified as critical to satellite providers,
while broadcasters likely will classify satellite uplinks and location transmitter sites as
critical components. However, it can be a challenge for SMBs to identify all of their assets,
particularly if this type of record keeping is not part of the current business culture, or
acquisitions have combined networks with varying degrees of available inventory details.
An inventory method can be as simple as a regularly updated spreadsheet or as complex as
a software platform integrated into network operations. (ID.AM‐1 and ID.AM‐2)
Once an effective inventory system is in place, all assets should be reviewed and prioritized
to determine if they are part of the organization’s core network and critical infrastructure
and services. This prioritization will assist in identifying where potentially limited resources
should be directed in order to maximize the ability to secure unprotected systems or
eliminate unauthorized or unnecessary software. Identifying and addressing the most
critical vulnerabilities first can lead to large steps in developing a cybersecurity risk
management strategy. (ID.AM‐5)
Be cautious not to operate with tunnel vision; for example, you likely recognize that if your
core router were compromised it would have a serious impact to your network, but how
about all the workstations that can access the network elements? Compromising a
workstation may give a bad actor access to the router, even if the later has all its security
patches installed. To set priorities, it may be useful to start from the inside and work out;
identify core, critical infrastructure and business assets, as they will have the highest
priority with respect to network protection techniques, i.e. the most frequently updated,
monitored, tested and backed up, which will enable the fastest recovery if ever necessary.
Facilities that have direct access to high‐priority assets, such as workstations, element
management systems and your network monitoring system that has access to all core
378The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
assets, likely will be the second priority and as we get further from core assets, the lower
the priority.
With assets inventoried and prioritized, the network is now ready for a targeted, efficient
monitoring program that can protect the most critical network elements from
vulnerabilities within the system or threats generated external to the system. This can
provide a baseline against which an SMB can better police and control the flow of traffic
through their network. However, continual monitoring can be a sizeable step for an SMB,
which is why prioritization is so vital. (ID.RA‐1)
Another aspect of “What” includes the type of activity to be evaluated once a monitoring
program has been established. Access to physical assets, both internal and remote, the
presence of unauthorized code or malware in the network and personnel or third‐party
service provider activity are common targets for monitoring and, in many instances, may
yield proportionally large benefits relative to the resources required. Investigating and
acting on notifications from monitoring systems will prepare an SMB for the remaining four
NIST Framework functions (Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover) and enable it to better
withstand a cybersecurity event. (DE.CM‐1, DE.CM‐2, DE.CM‐4, and RS.AN‐1)
B. Who
Cybersecurity cannot be properly implemented without understanding the individual roles
and responsibilities as they apply across all of the NIST Framework categories (Identify,
Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover). Cybersecurity awareness is not just for IT or
network engineering personnel but for all employees, contractors and vendors. Especially
in an SMB where resources are limited, it will require all employees to be vigilant in doing
their part to protect the core network.
First and foremost, cybersecurity needs to start with senior management and the
importance needs to be communicated to all employees. In many organizations, this is part
of the company’s on‐boarding process. In order to establish proper security configurations,
the system administrator needs to understand individuals roles and responsibilities and
identify who needs access and at what level. The system administrator can be an
individual, a group of individuals, or a contractor who has responsibility for the network.
Even more important, privileged users need to understand their roles and responsibilities.
(ID.AM‐6, PR.AT‐2 and PR.AT‐5)
Once roles and responsibilities are established, processes need to be put in place to ensure
proper communications during an incident and for continuous improvement. Incident
management can be as simple as an escalation phone tree that starts from the bottom of
an organization and extends to those who need to know, from an on‐call employee who
recognizes an issue, to technology personnel, and eventually to company leaders. Or, a
more formal service management process can be used, which includes specialized software
for logging and tracking incidents. (RS.CO‐1 and RS.CO‐4)
It is recommended that governance be established to include both technical personnel and
stakeholders from all departments to provide a platform for continuous improvement.
379The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Each department within an organization needs to be involved including, but not limited to,
Technology & IT, Operations, Finance, Sales and Human Resources. Third‐party contractors
and vendors supplying subject‐matter expertise, in addition to pertinent information from
government agencies and the web blogs should also be consulted. (ID.GV‐4)
We recommend developing security‐related policies that have the support of senior
management, are taught and enforced throughout the organization, and are reviewed and
updated frequently. A security‐mindset needs to be ingrained in the organization as to
approximate a life style. These plans will address basic security processes like locking doors
and changing passwords, to more specific recommendations concerning network
equipment configuration recommendations, logging and backups. Although memorializing
a security policy on paper is a good starting point, even more important is a company‐wide
commitment to security through training, and living the policies through encouragement or
enforcement.
C. How
In the previous two sections we discussed what you need to protect, and who is
responsible for protecting it. The last critical piece to this picture is how you can protect
your critical facilities from potential cyber threats or attacks.
This process begins with identifying potential cybersecurity risks and threats to your
network, assessing their likelihood, evaluating how they will affect your network, and,
finally, defining how you will respond to those risks. This analysis is articulated in a risk
management plan. A risk management plan needs to be flexible because no one can
predict the future with a high degree of accuracy; rather, plans have to address known
possibilities and be adaptable for unknown events. Just as we anticipate and strive to
prevent unintentional human error from degrading our networks, we can, and should,
anticipate network congestion (i.e. the impacts of distributed denial‐of‐service attacks
(DDoS)). Likewise, we should be able to predict and prevent unauthorized access, and we
should be able to harden our networks from known vulnerabilities. (ID.GV‐4)
Since predicting future threats may be difficult, we should look to secure our networks and
develop plans to address known attacks. This also will ensure we have a variety of tools in
place to help us deal with or at least mitigate new threats. Companies should look to
available sources to determine threats and remediation techniques. Many equipment and
operating system vendor websites provide information on known threats and the
recommended patches that can be installed to protect against them. Anti‐virus companies
provide updates, removal applications, and/or processes to detect and prevent computer
viruses on various systems. The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US‐
CERT) “leads the effort to improve the nation’s cybersecurity posture, coordinate cyber
information sharing, and proactively manage cyber risks.”115 Companies can subscribe to
the US‐CERT mailing lists and news feeds to get up‐to‐date information on the latest
115 See U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team, About Us, https://www.us‐cert.gov/about‐us (last visited Mar.
13, 2015).
380The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
system/software vulnerabilities and the associated patches. SMBs should assume that
threats that vendors, security developers, and US‐CERT know about and have addressed
are extremely likely to affect their assets. (ID.RA‐5 and ID.RA‐6)
Now that you identified potential threats to your network, you need to work on ways to
keep them out of your network. Access control mechanisms can be used to restrict and
limit who and what has access to your network(s). Previously, in the “What” section, we
suggested prioritizing assets from the “inside out.” However, the “outside in” approach
works well for implementing access control security measures. Using the “outside in”
approach, a company implements security at the most general levels then works toward
the details both physically and logically. SMBs should start by limiting access to physical
facilities containing core network elements, critical infrastructure, and mission‐critical
equipment, and developing a mechanism to confirm that the person trying to gain access
has a need, status‐level, and/or permission to enter those facilities. (PR.AC‐2, PR.PT‐3 and
PR.PT‐4)
Logical access follows the same methodology. Place generic restrictions at the edge of the
network, typically at a router, which connects to the public Internet. Use access control
lists (ACLs) to filter clearly inappropriate traffic such as “private” IP ranges, or some IP range
and protocol combinations. Establish a firewall to block everything that originates from
outside a network with only specific exceptions enabled, such as VPNs (virtual private
networks), which are configured and authenticated per person. (PR.AC‐3)
Inside the SMB’s network (behind the firewall relative to the public network(s)), access is
further restricted by user groups and individual responsibility requirements. Application
networks should be divided by customer support systems, accounting/billing, and network
equipment/element management systems, and isolated with ACLs that limit which
workstations or systems have visibility into each network. (PR.AC‐5)
In order to ensure systems are configured correctly, it is advisable to test system
configurations frequently. There are open source and commercial tools that perform these
tests. Use caution to target the correct devices. Check the perimeter router to confirm the
allowable destination and source IPs and ports respond as expected. Next, run the same
tests against all workstations, servers, and network elements from other “internal”
networks, and their own network. Internal scans should include the whole possible
network range; it is a good way to confirm documentation of existing equipment (new or
removed) as well as the configuration(s). (A component of ID.RA‐5)
User access to systems (user credentials) and the actions they can perform (view, update,
administration, etc.) are restricted by user requirements. User credentials should be
centrally managed in order to ensure consistent security across all accounts. Where
possible, network elements should authenticate against the central system; those that
cannot, should have appropriate user levels configured correctly and use unique strong
passwords for each account. ACLs should limit element access to only those that originate
from corporate network workstations. Vendors or others requiring only occasional access
381The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
should have their credentials enabled only upon request and disabled immediately after
task completion. (PR.AC‐1, PR.AC‐4, PR.PT‐3 and PR.PT‐4)
Once systems have been configured, any changes to those systems must be managed and
approved to ensure the integrity of the network is maintained. Change management
defines the processes and procedures that are performed when an asset or software
application within an infrastructure needs to be modified or updated. The reason for the
change and how it impacts dependent assets or software needs to be understood and
accepted. (PR.IP‐3)
All SMBs will require remote maintenance at one time or another. Vendor and consultant
access should be limited, enabled as required, and disabled immediately following the work
being completed, while “trusted” employees should probably have minimal restrictions on
their connectivity with all “local” access restrictions applying to their remote connection.
Firewall logging should be enabled. In addition, there are several reasons to discourage or
prohibit remote control applications (like LogMeIn) in favor of client‐based VPN. For
instance, remote‐control applications bypass firewall logging and centrally managed
authentication. (PR.MA‐2)
Risk management philosophy implies constant evaluation of current status and changes in
the environment. When notifications of newly discovered vulnerabilities are received,
SMBs should take appropriate action(s) including installing patch fixes and/or upgrades,
replacing equipment, or documenting the vulnerability as an acceptable risk presumably
due to its low potential impact on the network or the business. (RS.MI‐3)
It is unlikely that an SMB within the communications industry will be able to completely
avoid being the victim of a cybersecurity incident; however, the company can be prepared
to minimize the scope and duration of the incident. Several of the preceding
recommendations address aspects like isolating networks (limits the scope to the
compromised network segment), unique passwords (limits the incident to a single device,
although it may have wide reaching affects), and frequent backups and recovery testing
(assists with limiting the duration of an event). Minimizing an incident in progress is
challenging, and may require the cooperation of several players including SMB experts,
equipment vendors, and service providers. One way to minimize an event in progress is to
activate “spare” equipment, which has been previously configured, to replace a
compromised unit. Lacking 100% spares, a company may have to face the possibility that
turning down a service or network segment may be the most expedient means of response
and recovery. (RS.MI‐1 and RS.MI‐2).
382The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VI. USE CASES
In this section, we have provided two use cases that describe the steps taken by two SMBs
when implementing the NIST Framework within their organizations to protect their core
networks and critical infrastructure and services. The use cases describe both a high‐level
business methodology as well as a technical/engineering component.
There are many approaches that can be taken to use the NIST Framework; as no two
companies are the same, their approach will be different. However, after undertaking the NIST
Framework process, all companies should experience the same result: an increased resiliency
and ability to maintain critical infrastructure and core networking functions in the face of
cybersecurity threats and attacks.
A. Broadcast Industry Use Case
As a local radio and television broadcaster, I have a commitment to my community for
which my station is licensed. Making cybersecurity an intrinsic part of our business
protects our revenue, employees, viewers, and community at large.
Unfortunately, we were recently hit with a virus that infected the computers in our
newsroom, and, within a half‐hour from the time of detection, every machine in our station
technical center, except for the master control system, had been infected. The virus was
brought in from one of our field reporters’ laptops. Based upon this experience, our station
management decided to review and then use the NIST Framework to protect our core
network and critical infrastructure.
The areas that we focused on were access points to our critical business and broadcast
systems. This involved applying the principles of the NIST Framework to protect our
inbound/outbound firewall, the broadcast DMZ that separates the broadcast LAN from the
administration LAN, and laptops and “thumb” drives.
As the Chief Engineer, I compiled information from our local security consultant and from
various government websites. My Station Manger then set up a meeting with all the
department heads from Sales, Programming, Finance, News and Engineering and I
presented on the NIST Framework and the guidance for small businesses from the
information found while working on the WG 4 report. It was helpful to have a diverse
group of stakeholders in the room as cybersecurity is everyone's responsibility, and it
requires buy‐in from all staff members.
As a group, we reviewed the 98 subcategories within the NIST Framework, and based upon
our initial risk assessment, what had the greatest urgency to be implemented within our
network. We then devised a plan for review and recommendations with respect to the
following categories:
1. ID.AM‐6 Asset Management – Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities for the entire
workforce and third‐party stakeholders are established.
383The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
2. ID.GV‐4 Governance – Governance and risk management processes address
cybersecurity risks.
3. ID.RA‐3 Risk Assessment – Threats, both internal and external, are identified and
documented.
Once we completed our analysis, we then moved to implementation. This was actually a
bit easier once we understood “what” needed to be done, “who” was responsible and
“how” to move forward. During this implementation we focused on the following;
 PR.AC‐1 Access Control – Identities and credentials are managed for authorized
devices and users.
 RS.RP‐1 Data Security – Response plan is executed during or after an event.
 PR.IP‐3 Configuration change control processes are in place.
 DE.CM‐1 Anomalies & Events – The network is monitored to detect potential
cybersecurity events.
 RS.CO‐1 Communication – Personnel know their roles and order of operations when
a response is needed.
As you can see, it is not only important to place cybersecurity controls within the network,
but to change the “culture” so that people are aware of cybersecurity risks and their
related responsibilities. We are fortunate that our station has the necessary components
available. For instance, a firewall was already in place, but we simply did not go far enough
in protecting ourselves from cyber risks.
We were lucky as we were hit with a simple virus and the clean up only took a day. That
was enough to start taking cybersecurity seriously. Since that “day” we now have
employees trained in their role in cybersecurity, protection on all devices including laptops
and thumb drives, and continuous monitoring and improved security within our routers
and firewalls. We now track all system changes and incidents through our new service
management system.
We also now have regular meetings with our new “cybersecurity committee” to discuss the
latest threats, changes to our security protocols, and next steps for implementing the NIST
Framework. Each quarter we review the NIST Framework against our business and look for
new ways to improve our systems and processes.
B. Wireline, Wireless, and Cable Use Case
As a small or regional communications provider, we do not have a national scale, but we
have equally important regional and local communications needs as we are, in some
instances, the only carrier serving critical anchor institutions within the community. A
targeted cybersecurity attack could reduce response times, eliminate communication, or
provide misleading information during a disaster.
This use case focuses on the public‐facing network that affects the communication for our
customers. A business or company should take responsibility for ensuring that its core
384The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
network and critical infrastructure and services adhere to industry best practices and
regulatory requirements. The high‐priority items identified in Appendix II should be applied
to harden against external and internal cyber‐attacks.
 ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems within the organization are inventoried
 ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and applications within the organization are inventoried
o All companies, regardless of size, should maintain a list of equipment required
for critical services. This list can be as simple as an Excel spreadsheet or as
complex as an automatic system documenting the network. We recommend
tools that can gather this information and produce some type of report(s). An
inventory system can be used to verify that software patches that have been
identified by the manufacturer or third‐parties have been applied. You can’t
protect what you don’t know.
 ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices, data, and software) are prioritized based
on their classification, criticality, and business value
o The complete inventory list should be prioritized by value inside your
communications infrastructure. Items critical to all of your customers or critical
to emergency responders should be given priority for upgrades and patches.
These critical items could be the most vulnerable because they are Internet
terminations devices, core router(s), or long‐haul transport systems.
 ID.AM‐6: Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities for the entire workforce and third‐party
stakeholders (e.g., suppliers, customers, partners) are established
o Knowing the cybersecurity roles and responsibilities can be an overwhelming
task. In most companies, all personnel do not have access to the company
check book or accounting software. Cybersecurity is no different; you need to
define who is responsible for protecting the network. You need to establish a
clear chain of command in the event of an attack to guide the process of
recovery and reporting.
o Outside contractors and vendors are a lot harder to get a handle on for a small
provider, and even worse for a medium provider. We recommend you start by
sending out an internal survey to find out who has access to your networks; this
could include network support for equipment, accounting auditors, regulatory
consultants, and even HVAC contractors. Once the list is established, create
your requirements or questions, and have each vendor complete the form. We
recommend denying access to the networks until the forms are completed.
 ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk management processes address cybersecurity risks
Processes do not create a secure network, but they provide guidelines to make
sure a company is complying with regulations. Cybersecurity needs to be part of
your company’s risk management process. No network is completely secure
and different levels of security require different financial requirements. Risk
versus security needs to be included in the risk management process. This risk
management can be an informal process, or a risk report to show and measure
progress.
 ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are identified and documented
385The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
o In the Identify section we identified our network and the equipment inside our
network. We should now review the items and identify the known risks to the
devices. You need to understand which devices have the highest cybersecurity
risk based on their importance in your network plus their vulnerabilities. If your
devices must run simple network time protocol (SNTP) for monitoring, then
these devices should be listed as being vulnerable to an SNTP protocol attack;
likewise, if these devices must respond to network time protocol (NTP)
messages, they are vulnerable to an NTP type attack. Devices running multiple
services and protocols will be more vulnerable to attacks.
 ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and external, are identified and documented
 ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, likelihoods, and impacts are used to determine risk
o Documenting threats is important for all businesses, regardless of size. A group
or individual exercise to identify threats to the organization will help an SMB
focus on this effort while utilizing its limited resources. An example would be
having the managers/technical staff identify the top five internal and external
cybersecurity threats. These could be compiled into a complete list to allocate
capital and personal resources.
 ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are identified and prioritized
o Identifying risks is the first step in mitigating the risks; the identified and
prioritized list should be used to create plans for mitigating the identified
problems. Cybersecurity is a continual process; companies should review the list
of priorities on a scheduled basis.
 PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are managed for authorized devices and users
o Unauthorized access to devices is a critical vulnerability. All devices should be
configured to use a username/password for access, or at least a complex
password. When new equipment arrives from a manufacturer, it is configured
with a default password. The default password needs to be reset to block
unauthorized access to the device. Only authorized personal should know the
password and it should not be stored in an unencrypted area to prevent a
compromised computer from allowing a hacker access to the network. We
recommend installing a centralized authentication system, which allows for an
authentication policy to be implemented on one device and provides the ability
to monitor access, logging it as it occurs.
 PR.AC‐2:Physical access to assets is managed and protected
o The best way to access any equipment is to be physically connected to the
equipment. Physical access should be managed to prevent unauthorized access.
This could be as complicated as a physical card reader system with surveillance
cameras at each location, or as simple as making sure the database
center/central office door is locked. In our use case, we installed a system‐wide
proxy card system and surveillance cameras to control and monitor access from
a central location. As a small business, we felt that the centralized control and
monitoring approach was our best use of capital to secure our network.
 PR.AC‐3:Remote access is managed
o Remote access is very important to companies that operate 24/7. Employees
need to have access to equipment and data to perform their job while away
386The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
from the office. Remote access should be implemented with a two‐step
authentication process (one password to access their laptop and one password
to access the network). With a one‐step authentication process, if a laptop is
compromised, then the attacker will also gain access to the network. In a two‐
step system, the hacker may have access to the computer, but will not have the
password to access the network. We implemented a system of dual passwords,
one to access network computers and one to get access to the network
remotely.
 PR.AC‐4:Access permissions are managed, incorporating the principles of least privilege
and separation of duties
 PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is controlled, incorporating the principle of least
functionality
o Permissions need to be correlated within the company policy. These
permissions should be extended to all devices in the network. The simple and
very unsecure approach is to allow everyone access to everything, but this will
create a very unprotected and unsecure network. All devices should be
configured with some form of access control based on the user; this could be
simply no access for users that do not require access, a read‐only capability,
privileged accounts which allow limited/authorized access, and finally an admin
person who would have full access.
 PR.AT‐2: Privileged users understand roles &responsibilities
 PR.AT‐5: Physical and information security personnel understand roles and responsibility
o We recommend all SMBs provide formal/informal training to new and existing
employees about the critical assets under their control. They need to
understand their role in providing and protecting critical services.
 PR.AC‐5:Network integrity is protected, incorporating network segregation where
appropriate
 PR.PT‐4: Communications and control networks are protected
o All SMBs should be deploying network segregation at some level. We expect all
companies to separate the public and private networks. We also recommend
that private networks be separated by roles for integrity. One large LAN for
computers and equipment management puts both the equipment and LAN
computers at risk. If the networks are separated, controls based on company
policy can be applied to limit access to the network. Limited access reduces risk
because it reduces the type of traffic and the source of the traffic to the
equipment.
 PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected
o Data‐at‐rest is protected could mean a variety of levels of protection. For an
SMB, simple procedures should be followed to protect data, including not
leaving data outside the isolated network.
 PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected
o Data‐in‐transit should be protected when it leaves isolated and protected
networks regardless of network size or business size. Data in transit which is not
protected could be viewed and used for a cybersecurity attack. We recommend
387The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
encrypted VPN connections, encrypted virtual desktop connections, SSH, and
SFTP for remote access. Use of any standard FTP and Telnet should be limited
because they do not protect data in transit.
 PR.IP‐3: Configuration change control processes are in place
o We recognize that processes place additional work and burdens on SMBs who
do not have dedicated staff to manage processes and cybersecurity. However,
we recommend all communications providers implement a formal or informal
process for configuration control. All proposed changes should be examined to
make sure they do not violate company policy or standard cybersecurity
practices. This could be a formal process or an informal process; it is partially a
culture change to make sure cybersecurity is front‐and‐center during the
network configuration process.
 PR.IP‐4: Backups of information are conducted, maintained, and tested periodically
o All companies should maintain backups of the network. A network can never be
protected from all cybersecurity risks. Backups allow a network to be fully
restored to an original configuration. Having backups available helps to reduce
network restoration time. Network backups should be performed after
significant changes and/or on a schedule. Multiple free or commercial software
packages are available for configuration or system backup.
 PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response and Business Continuity) and recovery plans
(Incident Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are in place and managed
o A response plan can be a simple flow chart that provides a list of contacts that
need to be contacted during an attack or recovery. We recommend, at a
minimum, to create a flow chart showing who to contact for what type of
attacks. For instance, you do not need to contact the CFO for a DNS/NTP attack,
but a CFO should be notified of an attack against company financial data.
 PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of organizational assets is approved, logged, and
performed in a manner that prevents unauthorized access
o If keeping someone physically away from the equipment is important, then
making sure they don’t have remote access is just as important. In some areas,
remote access is even more important because the threats will come from
outside the area. Remote access to equipment should be controlled; the best
solution is to keep all management systems behind a firewall or control access
by IP address. In our case, we built a separate network using VLANs and L3VPNs
to separate monitor/control networks for our equipment. This control network
is only accessed from our internal network or through a two‐level authenticated
firewall (key + username/password). The outside equipment has access lists
applied to only allow IP address from our internet network
 DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to detect potential cybersecurity events
 DE.CM‐6: External service provider activity is monitored to detect potential cybersecurity
events
o The size of your business should not stop you from monitoring your network.
Free tools like MRTG/Cati or Nagios should be deployed to monitor and baseline
the network. Cybersecurity attacks can come in multiple forms and some can
388The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
cause huge network spikes. Using monitoring tools on the network allows these
attacks to be identified and corrected.
 DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is monitored to detect potential cybersecurity
events
o Cybersecurity incidents can originate remotely or through local attacks, and, as
such, the physical equipment should be monitored to detect local attacks.
 DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected
 DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code is detected
o Malware detection and antivirus software should be installed and maintained on
all computers. Malicious code is a way to gain access to a network to cause
problems. This detection software could be located on each device, plus on the
ingress/egress network point to watch for anomalies in the network.
 RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or after an event
o Businesses (small or large) need to have a response plan to describe what a
company should do during an event. This plan could be an informal plan
(something agreed upon verbally) but it is better if the plan is more formal and
explains how to handle a cybersecurity event. In our plan, this included: who
needs to be contacted internally (C‐Level, Legal, and Network Manager); who is
authorized to speed up mitigation, shut down all remote access, disable all
internet traffic, disable a BGP session, and install an access list. By providing
direct authorized items you can increase the recovery/mitigation timeframe.
 RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their roles and order of operations when a response is needed
 RS.CO‐2: Events are reported consistent with established criteria
 RS.CO‐4: Coordination with stakeholders occurs consistent with response plans
o Most likely, SMBs will not have staff dedicated to cybersecurity risk
management. These roles will be filled by multiple personnel and completed as
part‐time work. Part‐time roles enforce the need for response plans and
reporting systems. If you employ full‐time security personal, they understand
the flow to resolve a problem. In an SMB, part‐time roles require information
and procedures to ensure polices are followed. By themselves, policy and
procedures never make a network secure, but they allow conformity to make
sure all parties are informed and information is documented.
 RS.AN‐1: Notifications from detection systems are investigated
o We understand that detection systems will not be part of all network plans due
to their cost and complexity. If detection systems are used within a network,
these systems should be configured for remote alerting or active monitoring in
order to ensure an immediate response to cybersecurity attacks. We
recommend, at a minimum, setting up system logging on all devices and using
free off‐the‐shelf commercial software platforms to record data. Logging of the
data will not be as robust as a dedicated detection system, but will provide data
that can be used for root cause analysis.
 RS.MI‐1: Incidents are contained
o Cybersecurity incidents should be contained within a network. This may include
shutting down the effected equipment, shutting down a user, or removing
389The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
access to the device completely (both ingress and egress). This process should
be automated in a large company, but requires a manual intervention in an
SMB.
 RS.MI‐2: Incidents are mitigated
o Once an incident has been contained, the second step will be to find the root
cause and then correct the issue. If the original problem is not corrected, the
attack or incident could happen again.
 RS.MI‐3: Newly identified vulnerabilities are mitigated or documented as accepted risks
SMBs must review any identified vulnerabilities through government and industry sources. We
recommend each identified vulnerability be researched to find out the risks. We understand
the limited resources of an SMB, but major vulnerabilities must be compared to risk.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
 SMBs should avoid a checklist approach to cybersecurity. Cybersecurity is constantly
evolving as technology advances, attack parameters change, and new threats emerge.
A static checklist methodology is no longer an effective defense, as it confines the
methods and tactics by which an organization can prepare for or respond to eminent
threats. Rather, a more fluid and dynamic risk‐management approach is needed.
SMBs in the communications sector should revise their cybersecurity practices with
respect to a risk management maturity model, consistent with the NIST Framework
and the guidance provided in this document.
 SMBs should approach cybersecurity risk management as a process and strive for
continual improvement. SMBs should ensure that they re‐evaluate their security
needs, current status, target state, and subsequent tasks on a re‐occurring basis, with
an eye toward process integration.
 Continued outreach is needed to ensure that the SMB community is engaged in the
network risk management discussion generally, and aware of the benefits of the NIST
Framework specifically. As NIST, DHS, and the FCC continue their outreach, they
should understand that a single method of outreach may not be successful in
conveying relevance to an SMB. To truly reach the SMB community, outreach should
be structured in more practical terms, similar to those discussed in this document that
talked about “What,” “Who,” and “How.” Likewise, SMBs should avail themselves of
the resources and references that are available to them, including through the FCC,
DHS, and the tools outlined in Appendix III to this report.
 Consistent with the approach taken in this WG 4, the FCC should continue to allow
industry to evolve the CSRIC cybersecurity recommendations with respect to SMBs.
The SMB Feeder Group has developed practical, actionable guidance for SMBs, and, in
the future, industry is best positioned to revise and evolve the guidance issued in this
document.
390The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. APPENDICES
The SMB Group includes the following appendices to provide resource‐challenged SMBs with
additional guidance in regard to cybersecurity risk management.
A. Appendix I: Barriers to Implementation
The Barriers to Implementation Feeder Group developed a detailed analysis of the various
challenges faced by communications organizations as they attempt to apply the NIST
Framework to protect their core networks and critical infrastructure and services from
cyber‐attack, including Financial, Legal, Technology, Consumer/Market, and Operational
challenges.
The Barriers to Implementation Feeder Group explored each of these barriers, including
which type of barrier presents the greatest obstacle to specific Framework categories and
subcategories. For detailed information in regard to these five overarching areas of
barriers, readers should consult the Barriers to Implementation Feeder Group Report.
However, it is worth reiterating that as organizations defend their infrastructure from
attacks by capable adversaries – especially small, resource‐challenged organizations – they
face significant challenges, including access to financial capital, operational manpower,
technical expertise, management buy‐in, and the tools and resources needed to effectively
and efficiently create, maintain, and evolve a cybersecurity risk management program,
among other barriers.
To overcome these challenges, SMBs should consider:
 Accessing the practical guidance within this report, and programs at DHS designed to
assist small critical infrastructure organizations with developing or evolving a
cybersecurity risk management program
 Pooling resources with their peers to gain economies of scope and scale
 Relying upon the support of their peers in the communications sector, chiefly
communications operators and broadcasters, who have experience using the NIST
Framework within their operations
 Availing themselves of “targeted incentives” that the government may provide in the
future to satisfy the requirements of the EO
B. Appendix II: Priority Practices
As noted in the Methodology section above, the SMB Feeder Group examined the 98
subcategories contained within the NIST Framework. The group discussed whether the
control was in or out of scope; its criticality to protecting the core network and/or critical
infrastructure from cyber threats; how the given subcategories should or could be applied
in a small or mid‐sized carrier’s or broadcaster’s network; and potential barriers to
implementation.
391The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Based upon this analysis, the feeder group selected the subcategories that are the highest
priority for an SMB that is just beginning to undertake a risk management process to
protect its core network and critical infrastructure and services.
The following 37 practices were deemed to be the priority practices for SMBs to consider
implementing as they provide a baseline of protection for critical infrastructure. However,
it is important to remember that this is designed as merely a guide, and not a prescriptive,
inclusive list that pre‐defines which subcategories apply to all SMBs within the
communications sector. Rather, each company should examine its network, core business
objectives/mission, risk tolerance, and security needs to determine which subcategories—
of the 98 included in the NIST Framework—are most applicable to its operations.
Priority Practices
SMB SMB
NIST Framework Subcategory NIST Framework Subcategory
Question Question
ID.AM‐1: Physical devices and systems within the What PR.IP‐4: Backups of information are conducted, How
organization are inventoried maintained and tested periodically
PR.IP‐9: Response plans (Incident Response and
Business Continuity) and recovery plans (Incident
What What
ID.AM‐2: Software platforms and applications Recovery and Disaster Recovery) are in place and
within the organization are inventoried managed
ID.AM‐5: Resources (e.g., hardware, devices, data PR.MA‐2: Remote maintenance of organizational
What How
and software) are prioritized based on their assets is approved, logged, and performed in a
classification, criticality, and business value manner that prevents unauthorized access
ID.AM‐6: Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities for
the entire workforce and third‐party stakeholders PR.PT‐3: Access to systems and assets is
Who How
(e.g., suppliers, customers, partners) are controlled, incorporating the principle of least
established functionality
What/
ID.GV‐4: Governance and risk management PR.PT‐4: Communications and control networks How
How
processes address cybersecurity risks are protected
ID.RA‐1: Asset vulnerabilities are identified and DE.CM‐1: The network is monitored to detect
What What
documented potential cybersecurity events
ID.RA‐3: Threats, both internal and external, are What DE.CM‐2: The physical environment is monitored What
identified and documented to detect potential cybersecurity events
ID.RA‐5: Threats, vulnerabilities, likelihoods, and How What
impacts are used to determine risk DE.CM‐4: Malicious code is detected
ID.RA‐6: Risk responses are identified and
How What
prioritized DE.CM‐5: Unauthorized mobile code is detected
DE.CM‐6: External service provider activity is
PR.AC‐1: Identities and credentials are managed for How monitored to detect potential cybersecurity What
authorized devices and users events
PR.AC‐2: Physical access to assets is managed and How RS.RP‐1: Response plan is executed during or after Who
protected an event
RS.CO‐1: Personnel know their roles and order of
How Who
PR.AC‐3: Remote access is managed operations when a response is needed
PR.AC‐4: Access permissions are managed,
incorporating the principles of least privilege and How RS.CO‐2: Events are reported consistent with Who
separation of duties established criteria
PR.AC‐5: Network integrity is protected,
incorporating network segregation where How RS.CO‐4: Coordination with stakeholders occurs Who
appropriate consistent with response plans
PR.AT‐2: Privileged users understand roles & RS.AN‐1: Notifications from detection systems are
Who What
responsibilities investigated
392The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
PR.AT‐5: Physical and information security
Who How
personnel understand roles and responsibility RS.MI‐1: Incidents are contained
What How
PR.DS‐1: Data‐at‐rest is protected RS.MI‐2: Incidents are mitigated
RS.MI‐3: Newly identified vulnerabilities are
What How
PR.DS‐2: Data‐in‐transit is protected mitigated or documented as accepted risks
PR.IP‐3: Configuration change control processes are
How
in place
C. Appendix III: Annotated List of References/Resources
Included below is a list of tools, templates, reports, websites, etc., that can assist SMBs with
their cybersecurity efforts.
393The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
RESOURCE
SOURCE TITLE LINK DESCRIPTION
TYPE
http://windows.microsoft.c
Tips for creating strong om/en‐us/windows‐
Best Practices Microsoft Provides tips for creating and maintaining strong passwords.
passwords vista/tips‐for‐creating‐a‐
strong‐password
Small Business http://csrc.nist.gov/publicat This report assists small business management to understand
Best Practices NIST Information Security: ions/nistir/ir7621/nistir‐ how to provide basic security for their information, systems,
The Fundamentals 7621.pdf and networks.
The guide outlines red flags to look for and ways to prevent
identity or property theft; how to manage vendors and
Cybersecurity Best contractors who may have access to a company’s data; what to
Pennsylvania http://www.puc.pa.gov/gen
Practices for Small and know about anti‐virus software, firewalls and network
Best Practices Public Utility eral/pdf/Cybersecurity_Best
Medium Pennsylvania infrastructure; how to protect physical assets, such as a
Commission _Practices_Booklet.pdf
Utilities computer in a remote location or a misplaced employee device;
how to respond to a cyber‐attack and preserve forensic
information after the fact; and how to report incidents.
Nmap ("Network Mapper") is a free and open source (license)
utility for network discovery and security auditing. Many
systems and network administrators also find it useful for tasks
such as network inventory, managing service upgrade
Network schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime. Nmap uses
Open Source Network Mapper (Nmap) http://nmap.org/
Protection Tool raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are
available on the network, what services (application name and
version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and
OS versions) they are running, what type of packet
filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics.
394The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
World's most used penetration testing software; Put your
network's defenses to the test ‐ A collaboration of the open
Network Penetration Testing http://www.metasploit.com
RAPID7 source community and Rapid7. Our penetration testing
Protection Tool Software /
software, Metasploit, helps verify vulnerabilities and manage
security assessments
Network https://www.snort.org/ Snort is a free and open source network intrusion prevention
Sourcefire SNORT
Protection Tool system (NIPS) and network intrusion detection system (NIDS).
http://csrc.nist.gov/publicat
Contingency Planning Provides instructions, recommendations, and considerations
ions/nistpubs/800‐34‐
Planning Guide NIST Guide for Federal for creating a contingency plan that is used government
rev1/sp800‐34‐rev1_errata‐
Information Systems agencies but can be applied to any company/industry.
Nov11‐2010.pdf
http://csrc.nist.gov/publicat
Computer Security This document assists organizations in establishing computer
Planning Guide NIST ions/nistpubs/800‐
Incident Handling Guide security incident response capabilities and handling incidents.
61rev2/SP800‐61rev2.pdf
Stop.Think.Connect. Tips http://www.dhs.gov/stopth Materials that can be used to increase cybersecurity
Resource List DHS
and Resources inkconnect‐get‐informed awareness.
http://doit.maryland.gov/cy
Department of Provides link to cybersecurity resources and Maryland
Resource List Maryland.gov bersecurity/Pages/default.a
Information Technology cybersecurity education sites.
spx
Multi‐State Near the bottom of this page are some documents created by
Information MS‐ISAC Cyber Security http://msisac.cisecurity.org the MS‐ISAC to raise cybersecurity awareness through
Resource List
Sharing & Analysis Toolkit /resources/toolkit/oct14/ informative and practical means. There are also other
Center (MS‐ISAC) cybersecurity resources and links on this page.
United States
Computer https://www.us‐ Resources provided by the DHS Critical Infrastructure Cyber
Getting Started for
Resource List Emergency cert.gov/ccubedvp/getting‐ Community (C3) to help businesses align themselves to the five
Business
Readiness Team started‐business Cybersecurity Framework Function Areas.
(US‐CERT)
395The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
https://www.us‐
Various publications to help a user from setting up a computer
Resource List US‐CERT cert.gov/security‐
to emerging threats.
publications/
Self Service FCC Cyber Security http://transition.fcc.gov/cy A tool for small businesses to create customized cyber security
FCC
Tool Planning Guide ber/cyberplanner.pdf planning guides.
Self Service FCC Small Biz Cyber http://www.fcc.gov/cyberpl Online resource to help small businesses create customized
FCC
Tool Planner 2.0 anner cybersecurity plans.
http://www.sba.gov/tools/s
Self Service Cybersecurity for Small ba‐learning‐ This self‐paced training exercise provides an introduction to
SBA
Tool Businesses center/training/cybersecuri securing information in a small business.
ty‐small‐businesses
United States
The CRR is a no‐cost, voluntary, non‐technical assessment to
Computer https://www.us‐
Self Service Cyber Resilience Review evaluate an organization’s operational resilience and
Emergency cert.gov/ccubedvp/self‐
Tool (CRR) cybersecurity practices. This site also provides a link to self‐
Readiness Team service‐crr
assessment tool.
(US‐CERT)
PCI security for merchants and payment card processors is the
Payment Card
https://www.pcisecuritysta vital result of applying the information security best practices in
Industry (PCI)
Standards PCI Security Standards ndards.org/security_standa the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).
Security Standards
rds/getting_started.php The standard includes 12 requirements for any business that
Council
stores, processes or transmits payment cardholder data.
The Cyberterrorism Defense Initiative (CDI) is a national
counter‐cyberterrorism training program, developed for
Cyberterrorism Defense http://cyberterrorismcenter technical personnel and managers who monitor and protect
Training FEMA
Initiative .org/ our nation's critical cyber infrastructures. Classes are held in
easily accessible and centralized locations throughout the
United States.
Infragard provides free online security awareness and PCI
The Center for
https://infragardawareness. employee training for individuals. If you need a class they are
Training Infragard Information Security
com/ willing to come out and brand the class for your company for a
Awareness
cost.
396The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Cyber Security http://msisac.cisecurity.org
A collection of cybersecurity training websites and podcasts
Training MS‐ISAC Awareness Free Training /resources/videos/free‐
links.
and Webcasts training.cfm
SANS Information Security Webcasts are live web broadcasts
https://www.sans.org/webc combining knowledgeable speakers with presentation slides.
Training SANS Webcasts
asts/ SANS offers several types of webcasts designed to provide
valuable information and enhance your security education.
The TEEX/NERRTC Cybersecurity web‐based courses are
designed to ensure that the privacy, reliability, and integrity of
http://teex.com/teex.cfm?p the information systems that power our global economy
Texas A&M
Training Web‐based Training ageid=NERRTCprog&area=N remain intact and secure. These DHS/FEMA‐certified courses
Engineering
ERRTC&templateid=2039 are offered through three discipline‐specific tracks targeting
general, non‐technical computer users, technical IT
professionals, and business managers and professionals.
A series of podcasts that provides both general principles and
http://cert.org/podcasts/in specific starting points for business leaders who want to launch
Training US‐CERT CERT Podcast Series
dex.cfm an enterprise‐wide security effort or make sure their existing
security program is as good as it can be.
397The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
9.10 TOP CYBER THREATS AND VECTORS
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND BEST PRACTICES
WORKING GROUP 4
March 2015
398The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TABLE of CONTENTS
I. Executive Summary ....................................................................................... 400
II. Introduction .................................................................................................. 400
III. Feeder Group Structure ................................................................................ 401
IV. Background ................................................................................................... 401
V. Findings ......................................................................................................... 404
A. Critical Infrastructure Findings ............................................................... 404
B. Communication Sector Findings ............................................................. 405
C. Bots and Botnets .................................................................................. 406
D. DDOS Attack ........................................................................................... 407
E. Current Attack Targets and Threat Vectors ............................................ 408
VI. Analysis .......................................................................................................... 409
VII. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................. 413
VIII. Acknowledgements ..................................................................................... 414
399The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The growing popularity of mobile devices, applications, social networks, and Internet
connected devices that make up the Internet of Things (IoT) makes the threat landscape a
complex set of moving pieces. Today’s cyber‐attacks can appear to be simple and direct.
But, they can also be deceptive in an attempt to distract from the primary attack objective.
The entire threat ecosystem is made up of a diverse set of actors that are as intelligent,
creative, deceptive, and often times more technically savvy than the networks, information,
and the people that we are trying to protect.
Cyber attacker’s motivations and their techniques continue to grow in number, complexity, and
sophistication. The attacker’s technical resources are constantly being developed, enhanced
and reused throughout the entire threat lifecycle. Threat actors will continue to look for new
vulnerabilities and attack vectors within every layer of the TCP/IP116 and OSI117 communications
stacks.
While looking at the people, processes, and technologies required in identifying, protecting,
detecting, responding, and recovering from cyber threats, as spelled out in the NIST
Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF), the Threats Feeder Group has reviewed a set of processes
for entities to manage their threat intelligence and then translate that knowledge into the
most effective defensive actions. Tailored threat intelligence is powerful knowledge that allows
entities to learn from the experiences of others, learn from their networks, learn from
government, and industry subject matter expertise to potentially prevent malicious activity
that might be otherwise difficult to identify.
There is a great deal of threat intelligence available from numerous sources; to be most
effective however, the individual network operator seeking to protect its core infrastructure,
needs to find the means to find the information relevant, or tailored, to that task. In particular,
the Threat Feeder Group believes the Community Models for Threat Intelligence/Information
Sharing and Analysis as outlined within the body of this report and manifested in sector‐level
ISACs should be considered by individual network operators.
II. INTRODUCTION
In support of CSRIC Work Group 4, the Threats Feeder Group was tasked to review the nature
and trends of cybersecurity threats and with investigating ongoing processes that could be
used to gather, analyze, categorize, and share information about threats and vulnerabilities
relevant to the telecommunications sector. Threats and vulnerability information should be
processed in a manner that can be rapidly and consistently identified and translated into
defensive action by individual enterprises, segments, and the sector as a whole, in a manner
consistent with risk‐based decision making processes of an individual enterprise as well as the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework. The work product of the Threats Feeder Group may provide
116 See Wikipedia, Internet Protocol Suite, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_protocol_suite (last visited Mar.
13, 2015).
117 See Wikipedia, OSI Model, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
400The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
value to Communications Sector member companies in all five segments and across large,
medium, and small size enterprises.
III. FEEDER GROUP STRUCTURE
The threats feeder group consists of the members listed below:
Name Company
Co‐Chair ‐ Joe Viens Time Warner Cable Inc.
Co‐Chair ‐ Russell Eubanks Cox Communications
Chris Jeppson Consolidated Communications
Tony Sager (Advisor) Council on CyberSecurity
Brian Scarpelli Telecommunications Industry Association
Kathryn Condello (Advisor) Centurylink
Tom Soroka USTelecom Association
Table 3 ‐ List of Working Group Members
IV. BACKGROUND
Objective
The objective of the threats feeder group is to review current threats and trends and to
investigate operational processes that could be used to better incorporate (gather, analyze,
categorize) cyber threat, vulnerability, and intelligence information relevant to the
communications sector, into risk management processes. Thus, the focus of this threats
feeder group’s effort is to best enable “threat informed” cyber risk management decisions.
The threats feeder group intends for the findings and recommendations in this report assist
communications sector members of any size in participating in, and leveraging the
information gleaned from community threat venues, to actively adapt to a changing
cybersecurity landscape, and respond to evolving and sophisticated threats in a timely
manner. Such approaches are the foundations upon which sector‐level Information Sharing
and Analysis Centers were developed as well as other organizations with varying degrees of
formality. These venues are described in a recent draft NIST Guide to Cyber Threat
Information Sharing118 and are consistent with objectives described in a recently released
Executive Order on Information Sharing.119
Scope:
The focus of the threats feeder group is on core communications networks. However the
processes and models described herein could also be used to secure internal, enterprise
networks as well.
118 National Institute of Standards and Technology, Guide to Cyber Threat Information Sharing (Draft) 17 (2014),
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800‐150/sp800_150_draft.pdf.
119 Exec. Order No. 13,691, Promoting Private Sector Cybersecurity Information Sharing, 80 FR 9347 (Feb. 13, 2015)
(EO 13691).
401The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The 2012 National Sector Risk Assessment Report was utilized as a core resource for this
activity. The 2012 National Sector Risk Assessment Report for Communications was
developed in a joint CSCC/GCC partnership effort in conjunction with our SSA, the
Department of Homeland Security and other US Department and Agency representatives
within the Government Coordinating Council.120 The Assessment outlines ways that a bad
actor could potentially take advantage of, or attack core communication networks. The
Assessment further provided insights into the possible consequence associated with a
cyber‐attack on the core communications.
The threats feeder group agreed upon the following definitions of “threats”. Threats are
defined as intentional and unintentional attacks by both malicious and non‐malicious actors
committing resource exhaustion (affects network availability), system alteration (affects
network integrity), and system intrusion (affects network confidentiality). 121
The threats feeder group also chose to use the TCP/IP layered communications model, used
by the CSRIC WG4 Ecosystem Feeder group as the reference model for analyzing threats.
The TCP/IP Model separates networking functions into discrete layers. Each layer performs
a specific function and is transparent to the layer above it and the layer below it. From
lowest to highest, the layers are the link layer, containing communication technologies for a
single network segment (link); the internet layer, connecting hosts across independent
networks, thus establishing internetworking; the transport layer handling host‐to‐host
communication; and the application layer, which provides process‐to‐process application
data exchange. In the context of this particular report, the Transport, Internet and
Network Access (Link) layers, are the ones that are most likely to be implicated in the
“core” infrastructure of concern to this working group.
120 See Department of Homeland Security, 2012 Risk Assessment Report for Communications 80 (Sept. 2012)
[CLASSIFIED].
121 Id. at 80.
402The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
TCP/IP Layered Communications Model
403The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
V. FINDINGS
The Threat Feeder Groups reviewed a large number of publications (see Acknowledgements
section). The following reflect key findings by the Threat Feeder Group:
A. Critical Infrastructure Findings
Cyber thieves, industrial/political spies, and cyber‐criminals often operate within a
company’s own trust boundaries. Outbound threats are not always the result of an
intentional attack. They often occur when an employee unintentionally opens a “back
door” by downloading a rogue application, opening an email attachment, or by clicking on a
web link that could infect and possibly drop malware on the employee’s computer or edge
device.
The Most Common Types of Cyber Threats to Critical Infrastructure (in general) include,
but are not limited to:
 Proprietary Espionage ‐ Targeted Information: Intellectual property; proprietary
information; geopolitical, competitive or classified intelligence; etc
 Insider Trading Theft ‐ Targeted Information: Pending M&A deals or contracts;
upcoming financial earnings; future IPO dates; etc
 Financial & Identify Theft ‐ Targeted Information: Employee and customer personally‐
identifiable information; payment transactions; account numbers; financial credentials;
etc.
 Technical Espionage ‐ Targeted Information: Password or account credentials, source
code, digital certificates; network and security configurations; cryptographic keys;
authentication or access codes; etc.
 Reconnaissance and Surveillance: ‐ Targeted Information: System and workstation
configurations; keystrokes; audio recordings; emails; screenshots; additional infection
vectors; logs; cryptographic keys; etc.
The most common Attacker Target/Data Loss events in and critical infrastructure systems
are:
 Account passwords and hashes, password filter installation, group policy
modification
 Intellectual & sensitive property, regulated and classified data theft
 Confidential records, column‐level encryption
 Corporate communications, business & defense related data, early warning of
detection
 Infections from partner organizations and agencies
404The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
In the area of targeted attacks against critical infrastructure, attackers are increasingly
targeting:
 Specific populations (users within a particular political boundary)
 Geographic regions (users within a particular geographic boundary)
 Groups (users with shared roles or linkages: business functions, shared social habits,
user communities)
 A single individual (a user chosen for strategic value)
Advanced Persistent Threat (APTs). The primary method for infecting targeted
organizations involve sending spear‐phishing emails to numerous targets. These phishing
emails contain malware or malicious links to malware that exploits vulnerabilities found in
popular operating systems, office applications, and programs. Attackers have successfully
compromised organizations across every sector, including government and defense
agencies, commercial enterprises, financial institutions, and scientific research facilities.
B. Communication Sector Findings
VoIP and Voice security threats within the Communications Sector can be placed into three
classes of threats:
 Availability Threats: Availability of voice service refers to voice and VoIP service being
available for use when needed. Just as with data networks, VoIP services are susceptible
to a denial of service attack. Voice and VoIP distributed denial of service attacks can
come from anywhere on the Internet or via the PSTN‐SS7 networks. Another variation
of a VoIP DDoS attack occurs when a cancel message is spoofed so that as a victim is
unable to build a connection with the other party. As soon as a connection is
established, a spoofed GOODBYE or a cancel signal is sent.
 VoIP Confidentiality Threats: When voice or VoIP confidentiality is compromised,
information can be accessed by individuals that are not authorized to receive it. This
type of threat includes unauthorized access to IP addresses, network documentation,
system and endpoint passwords, audio/video content, conversation history, and call
detail records. Eavesdropping of unprotected VoIP conversations is easier because
there are a large number of nodes between two users and any of these can be used to
access the IP packets that form the conversation. A large number of free and paid tools
are available that allow VoIP packets to be converted to audio files. These audio files
can be saved and played back later at leisure. Many VoIP phones and devices have a
number of undocumented ports and services. These can be easily found by competent
attackers and used to eavesdrop on conversations. Many VoIP systems for billing, call
management, and routing are delivered and installed with default passwords that are
well known to the attacker community.
 Voice & VoIP Integrity Threats: Caller ID spoofing is one of the most prevalent voice
integrity attacks and best known in the voice service provider community. Spoofed
405The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
caller IDs have been used to order cash transfers, Spammers also use Caller ID Spoofing
techniques to launch attacks posing as banks or other trusted entities. Other integrity
attacks rely on replacing a genuine client’s information with that of the attacker. This
will cause the call to be routed to the attacker. In a situation where the called party is
not personally known, this could bring obvious benefits to the attacker – a scenario
could be an attacker impersonating the help desk of a credit card company. Other
integrity threats arise from techniques known as Registration Hijacking, Proxy
Impersonation, and Call Redirection. In Registration Hacking, the attacker alters the
registration details of the victim and inserts his (the attacker’s) details instead. This will
cause all calls for the victim to be routed to the attacker. A denial of service attack on
the victim during this period ensures that the victim cannot attempt to re‐register.
During this period, the attacker can assume the VoIP identity of the victim. There is no
simple method to prevent caller ID spoofing on which the entire series of Integrity
Threats rest. Experts say that the best thing to do is not to trust caller ID display without
other supporting evidence.
C. Bots and Botnets
The growing number of cyber attacks that indicate bots and bot nets as a go‐to tactic
for hackers and hacker groups. A bot is a computing system tasked with performing a
specific Internet function in an automated fashion. Not all bots are malicious in nature;
there are bots that perform legal and useful tasks such as Web indexing, data collection,
competitive research, and promotional activities on social networking Web sites. For
attackers, the benefits provided by bots include the ability for bots to perform maliciuos
tasks repeatedly, quickly, and in an automated manner enabling attackers to control
these systems en masse and to great effect. A group of coordinated bots, called a
botnet, enable threat actors to perform distributed denial‐of‐service (DDoS) attacks on
massive scales.
406The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
The anatomy of a typical botnet and its activity is depicted in the graphic below:
Source: Check Point Software Technologies
Key components of a large bot network includes, but not limited to:
 An address book of contacts or a collection of compromised servers (to act as
watering holes).
 An email or web‐based delivery mechanism.
 Socially engineered content for lure activation.
 Redirection servers and domains to mask destination.
 Hosted malicious content servers and domains for exploits and malware.
 Command‐and‐control (C&C) servers and domains for lateral movement within a
targeted network, and further penetration.
 Data exfiltration repositories.
D. DDOS Attack
DDoS attack vectors within the Communications Sector can vary significantly. However,
DDoS Attack vectors can fall into one of three categories:
1. Volumetric Attacks: These attacks attempt to consume the bandwidth either within
the target network or service, or between the target network or service and the rest
of the Internet. These attacks are simply about causing congestion.
407The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
2. TCP State‐Exhaustion Attacks: These attacks attempt to consume the connection
state tables that are present in many infrastructure components, such as load
balancers, firewalls, and the application servers themselves. They can take down
even high‐capacity devices capable of maintaining state on millions of connections.
3. Application‐Layer Attacks: These target some aspect of an application or service at
the Application‐Layer. They are the most sophisticated, stealthy attacks because
they can be very effective with as few as one attacking machine generating a low
traffic rate. This makes these attacks very difficult to proactively detect with
traditional flow‐based monitoring solutions. To effectively detect and mitigate this
type of attack in real time, it is necessary to deploy an in‐line or other packet‐based
component to your DDoS defense.
E. Current Attack Targets and Threat Vectors
Current Attack Targets and Threat Vectors that effect the Communications Sector
include, but are not limited to:
 Higher Magnitude and Application‐Layer DDoS Attacks: Reported attacks
ranging from 309Gbps at the top end through 200Gbps, 191Gbps, 152Gbps,
130Gbps and 100Gbps. Attackers do seem to have been resorting to large,
volumetric DDoS attacks to achieve their goals.
 Application‐layer Attacks: Have been trending up for several years. However, HTTP
POST floods becoming much more common. Although HTTP traffic is still the
number one DDoS target, there has been strong growth in application‐layer attacks
targeting encrypted Web services (HTTPS).
 Corporate/Gov’t Agency Network Threats: Advanced persistent threats (APT) are
increasingly common, along with growing numbers of attacks targeting
BYOD/mobility environments.
 Data Center Attacks: Data centers have become a magnet for DDoS activity,
because they represent a target‐rich environment. Shared network and data
communications infrastructure brings an inherent risk of collateral damage if not
properly protected.
 DNS Attacks: The number of high‐profile DNS reflection/amplification attacks seen
has risen dramatically. The most notorious of these attacks targeted Spamhaus and
tipped the scales at over 300Gbps.122 Many attackers took note and followed suit
with their own DNS reflection/amplification campaigns.
122 See Alan McLean, How the Cyberattack on Spamhaus Unfolded,
http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2013/03/30/technology/how‐the‐cyberattack‐on‐spamhaus‐
unfolded.html?_r=1& (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
408The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Mobile Attacks: Most global and national wireless network operators, still operate
traditional GSM, 2G, and 3G networks. However, LTE deployments continue to
increase. In the mobility threat landscape, over 90% of all attacks, target the
Android operating system and corrsponding mobile apps.
 IPv6: The volume of IPv6 traffic on the Internet appears to be growing very rapidly.
However, attackers have learned to exploit vulnerabilties in networks where a dual
IPv4 and IPv6 stack is in use by a network operator.
VI. ANALYSIS
The large number of findings highlighted above, reflect threats against critical infrastructure
generally, as well as threat elements more closely associated with communication sector
assets. In short, the findings above cut across all four layers of the TCP/IP communications
model: Application, Transport, Internet, and Network Access (Link) layers. The focus of this
sub‐group, however, is on the protecting the core infrastructure and assuring network
availability, integrity, and confidentiality.123
There are a large number of sources for threat information: ISACs, the NCCIC/USCERT/NCC,
Cyber‐Threat vendors, Think‐tanks, News Agencies, and Industry Peers, among others. The
NIST CSF emphasizes that “organizations will continue to have unique risks – different threats,
different vulnerabilities, different risk tolerances”124. However, the NIST CSF also notes that, “
the organization may seek to incorporate emerging risks and threat and vulnerability data to
facilitate a robust understanding of the likelihood and impact of cybersecurity events“.125
A. Community Threat Model / Information Sharing and Analysis:
Network Service Providers within the Communications Sector have a long history of mutual
aid and collaboration with each other to respond to major physical events. Many network
service provicers are members of the oldest Information Sharing and Analysis Center, the
DHS National Coordinating Center, which was created and established more than 30 years
ago ‐‐ at the request of Industry. Many providers also participate in bilateral or closed trust
groups to address core infrastructure security and reliability issues. Notwithstanding these
well established venues, some network service providers are taking some incremental,
first‐steps toward developing more robust protocols for mutual cyber‐aid in defending core
networks. CSRIC WG4 notes, however, that these first‐steps toward mutual aid and
support are hampered by lack of legislative clarity surrounding 1) the ability to share cyber‐
related information; 2) whether action taken either individually or collectively by the
providers would lead to greater liability exposure than not taking those actions; and 3)
123 See Section I.
124 See National Institute for Standards and Technology, Framework for Improving Cybersecurity, 79 FR 9167 (Feb.
18, 2014) [hereinafter NIST CSF], available at http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/upload/cybersecurity‐
framework‐021214.pdf.
125 Id. at 14.
409The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
whether there is greater liability exposure when no action is taken individually or
collectively by providers.
Nonetheless, there could be clear benefits associated with a “community first” approach
toward protecting the core infrastructure, especially when the collaboration and pooling of
threat information might validate real‐time threats or potential consequences. It could also
provide a way to ensure a consistent view of threat information across the sector, enabling
the ability to compare defensive decisions, or alternatively for peering partners to mutually
support each other.
A community model for information sharing and analysis is consistent with the creation of
sector‐specific ISACs under PDD63 and this same community‐model approach was
reaffirmed in the recent Presidential Executive Order126. Such venues focus on the needs
and commonalities of the community, and must be highly adaptive to address the rapidly
evolving threat environment. In this modern era of very rapid information flow and
changes in adversary techniques and tradecraft, there is a need to create a shareable,
ongoing process to support the security decision‐making of core network operators and the
broader cyber ecosystem.
As such, the Threat Communications subgroup recommends that Sector members should
leverage the threat intelligence capabilities of the Communications ISAC127 as well as other
intelligence sources, and consider participation in both active and trusted community
threat venues. Through the Comm‐ISAC venue, communication sector members could
work to enhance the cyber‐related protocols associated with assessing threat, risk,
mitigations, and mutual support. This network provider community could collaborate to:
identify threat or attack information with a specific focus on core networks; identify
relevant “crossover” (between core and enterprise networks) issues to be shared with
relevant stakeholders (e.g., exploitation of commercial switching gear, protocol attacks
with relevance to core network operators.); or support core network operators through
collection of useful resources, case studies, etc., that assist in assessing risk, and choosing
defensive‐protective options.
With this approach, the Communications Sector can create a more robust process that
leverages an existing community‐supported and vetted process, and fine tunes it for our
segment’s specific operational environment, while minimizing cost and duplication.
Using the outputs from such a community threat model and from their own enterprise
threat intelligence gathering and analysis, an individual organization can then ask and
answer the following questions, to decide on actions it needs to undertake to address a
current or pending threat:
126 See EO 13691.
127 See Department of Homeland Security, National Coordinating Center for Communications,
http://www.dhs.gov/national‐coordinating‐center‐communications (last visited Mar. 13, 2015).
410The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
 Have we gathered the latest threat information from all of the available threat
sources like; the ISACs, the NCCIC/USCERT/NCC, Cyber‐Threat vendors and Think‐
tanks, various news agencies and cooperative industry peers?
 Were any of our assets affected by these threats?
 If yes, what assets, addresses, ports, circuits, servers, switches etc. were affected by
these threats?
 If yes, what security controls should we implement to address these threats?
 If No, what can our organization do to prevent and mitigate the effects of these
threats?
 Following our response and recovery actions, what “lessons learned” can we add to
our overall threat intelligence?
The threats feeder group recommends that network operators within the communications
sector share the threat intelligence information derived from the questions above with their
peers (consistent with applicable laws), thus enabling more efficient and scalable threat
information gathering for use in threat analyses and cyber risk management decision making.
411The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Illustrative Threat Intelligence / Information Sharing Process Model:
412The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
 The community threat models and threat intelligence handling models for threat
awareness that are described in this report must continually evolve in order to respond
to the ever changing tactics utilized by malicious actors and the unknown threats of
tomorrow. Tailored threat knowledge can be used to better defend our networks.
 The threats feeder group concludes that the current and future threat landscape will
continue to evolve and will require agile and adaptive methods of obtaining threat
intelligence, in order to adequately protect critical communications infrastructure.
 The threats feeder group concludes that organizations should continuously gather
Threat Intelligence from a multitude of industry and government agencies, and cyber
threat think‐tanks in order to stay ahead of malicious actors and attackers and
adequately protect critical communications infrastructure.
 The threats feeder group recommends that a community model for threat intelligence
or information sharing and analysis be considered by organizations intending to use
threat intelligence in their quest to protect critical infrastructure and protect critical
data from future‐unknown cyber threats.
 The threats feeder group recommends that Sector members should leverage the threat
intelligence capabilities of the Communications ISAC (Comm‐ISAC) as well as other
intelligence sources, and consider participation in active and trusted community threat
venues.
 The threats feeder group recommends that network operators within the
communications sector share threat intelligence information with their peers
(consistent with applicable laws), thus enabling more efficient and scalable threat
information gathering for use in threat analyses and cyber risk management decision
making.
413The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The following industry and government reports were utilized by the threats feeder Group
during the analysis portion of generating this report:
NSIE 2014 Risk Assessment
Verizon: 2014 Data Breach Investigations Report
https://dti.delaware.gov/pdfs/rp_Verizon‐DBIR‐2014_en_xg.pdf
Websense 2014 Threat Report
http://www.websense.com/assets/reports/report‐2014‐threat‐report‐en.pdf
Symantec: Internet Security Threat Report
http://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/other_resources/b‐
istr_main_report_v19_21291018.en‐us.pdf
Sophos: Security Threat Report 2014, Smarter, Shadier, Stealthier Malware
http://www.sophos.com/en‐us/medialibrary/PDFs/other/sophos‐security‐threat‐report‐
2014.pdf
Cisco’s 2014 Annual Security Report
http://www.cisco.com/web/offer/gist_ty2_asset/Cisco_2014_ASR.pdf
Hewlett Packard: Cyber risk report 2013
http://www8.hp.com/h20195/v2/GetPDF.aspx%2F4AA5‐0858ENW.pdf
Department of Homeland Security: Executive Order 13636: Improving Critical Infrastructure
Cybersecurity
https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/dhs‐eo13636‐analytic‐report‐
cybersecurity‐incentives‐study.pdf
EY: Under Cyber Attack – EY’s Global Information Security Survey 2013
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY_‐
_2013_Global_Information_Security_Survey/$FILE/EY‐GISS‐Under‐cyber‐attack.pdf
Bipartisan Policy Center: Cybersecurity and the North American Electric Grid: New Policy
Approaches to Address an Evolving Threat
http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Cybersecurity%20Electric%20Grid%20BPC.pdf
Booz Allen: Cyber Power Index
http://www.boozallen.com/content/dam/boozallen/media/file/Cyber_Power_Index_Findings_
and_Methodology.pdf
Office of Management and Budget: Annual Report to Congress – Federal Information Security
Management
414The Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council IV Working Group 4
Final Report March 2015
Arbor Annual Threat Report focused on Denial of Service
http://www.arbornetworks.com/resources/infrastructure‐security‐report
Ponemon Institute Exposing the Cybersecurity Cracks: A Global Perspective
http://insidecybersecurity.com//index.php?option=com_iwpfile&amp;file=jul2014/cs0717201
4_Report_Ponemon_2014_Part2.pdf
CSRIC IV WG5 “Remediation of Server‐Based DDoS Attacks” Final Report
http://transition.fcc.gov/pshs/advisory/csric4/CSRIC_IV_WG5_Remediation_of_Server‐
Based_DDoS_Attacks_Report_Final_%28pdf%29_V11.pdf
Guide to Cyber Threat Information Sharing (Draft), NIST Special Publication 800‐150 (Draft)
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800‐150/sp800_150_draft.pdf
415

